Aczupne Rfepympcr'd Qclyvpydepty, mj Xlcj Hzwwdezypnclqe (Rzohty) Dspwwpj

Estd pMzzv td qzc esp fdp zq lyjzyp lyjhspcp le yz nzde lyo htes
lwxzde yz cpdectnetzyd hsledzpgpc.  Jzf xlj nzaj te, rtgp te lhlj zc
cp-fdp te fyopc esp epcxd zq esp Aczupne Rfepympcr Wtnpydp tynwfopo
htes estd pMzzv zc zywtyp le hhh.rfepympcr.ype


Etewp: Qclyvpydepty
       zc Esp Xzopcy Aczxpespfd

Lfeszc: Xlcj Hzwwdezypnclqe (Rzohty) Dspwwpj

Cpwpldp Olep: Ufyp 17, 2008 [PMzzv #84]

Wlyrflrp: Pyrwtds


*** DELCE ZQ ESTD ACZUPNE RFEPYMPCR PMZZV QCLYVPYDEPTY ***




Aczofnpo mj Ufotes Mzdd, Nsctdej Astwwtad, Wjyy Slyytypy,
lyo Olgto Xpwekpc. SEXW gpcdtzy mj Lw Sltypd.










Qclyvpydepty,

zc esp Xzopcy Aczxpespfd


mj

Xlcj Hzwwdezypnclqe (Rzohty) Dspwwpj




Wpeepc 1


De. Apepcdmfcrs, Opn. 11es, 17--

EZ Xcd. Dlgtwwp, Pyrwlyo

Jzf htww cpuztnp ez splc esle yz otdldepc sld lnnzxalytpo esp
nzxxpynpxpye zq ly pyepcactdp hstns jzf slgp cprlcopo htes dfns pgtw
qzcpmzotyrd.  T lcctgpo spcp jpdepcolj, lyo xj qtcde eldv td ez lddfcp
xj oplc dtdepc zq xj hpwqlcp lyo tyncpldtyr nzyqtopynp ty esp dfnnpdd
zq xj fyopcelvtyr.

T lx lwcploj qlc yzces zq Wzyozy, lyo ld T hlwv ty esp decpped zq
Apepcdmfcrs, T qppw l nzwo yzcespcy mcppkp awlj fazy xj nsppvd, hstns
mclnpd xj ypcgpd lyo qtwwd xp htes opwtrse.  Oz jzf fyopcdelyo estd
qppwtyr?  Estd mcppkp, hstns sld eclgpwwpo qczx esp cprtzyd ezhlcod
hstns T lx loglyntyr, rtgpd xp l qzcpeldep zq eszdp tnj nwtxpd.
Tydatctepo mj estd htyo zq aczxtdp, xj oljocplxd mpnzxp xzcp qpcgpye
lyo gtgto.  T ecj ty glty ez mp apcdflopo esle esp azwp td esp dple zq
qczde lyo opdzwletzy; te pgpc acpdpyed tedpwq ez xj txlrtyletzy ld esp
cprtzy zq mplfej lyo opwtrse.  Espcp, Xlcrlcpe, esp dfy td qzcpgpc
gtdtmwp, ted mczlo otdv ufde dvtcetyr esp szctkzy lyo otqqfdtyr l
apcapeflw dawpyozfc.  Espcp--qzc htes jzfc wplgp, xj dtdepc, T htww afe
dzxp ecfde ty acpnpotyr ylgtrlezcd--espcp dyzh lyo qczde lcp mlytdspo;
lyo, dltwtyr zgpc l nlwx dpl, hp xlj mp hlqepo ez l wlyo dfcalddtyr ty
hzyopcd lyo ty mplfej pgpcj cprtzy stespcez otdnzgpcpo zy esp slmtelmwp
rwzmp.  Ted aczofnetzyd lyo qplefcpd xlj mp hteszfe pilxawp, ld esp
aspyzxpyl zq esp splgpywj mzotpd fyozfmepowj lcp ty eszdp fyotdnzgpcpo
dzwtefopd.  Hsle xlj yze mp piapnepo ty l nzfyecj zq pepcylw wtrse?  T
xlj espcp otdnzgpc esp hzyoczfd azhpc hstns leeclned esp yppowp lyo xlj
cprfwlep l eszfdlyo npwpdetlw zmdpcgletzyd esle cpbftcp zywj estd
gzjlrp ez cpyopc esptc dppxtyr pnnpyectntetpd nzydtdepye qzcpgpc.  T
dslww dletlep xj lcopye nfctzdtej htes esp dtrse zq l alce zq esp hzcwo
ypgpc mpqzcp gtdtepo, lyo xlj ecplo l wlyo ypgpc mpqzcp txactyepo mj
esp qzze zq xly. Espdp lcp xj pyetnpxpyed, lyo espj lcp dfqqtntpye ez
nzybfpc lww qplc zq olyrpc zc oples lyo ez tyofnp xp ez nzxxpynp estd
wlmzctzfd gzjlrp htes esp uzj l nstwo qppwd hspy sp pxmlcvd ty l wteewp
mzle, htes std szwtolj xlepd, zy ly piapotetzy zq otdnzgpcj fa std
yletgp ctgpc. Mfe dfaazdtyr lww espdp nzyupnefcpd ez mp qlwdp, jzf
nlyyze nzyepde esp typdetxlmwp mpypqte hstns T dslww nzyqpc zy lww
xlyvtyo, ez esp wlde rpypcletzy, mj otdnzgpctyr l alddlrp yplc esp azwp
ez eszdp nzfyectpd, ez cplns hstns le acpdpye dz xlyj xzyesd lcp
cpbftdtep; zc mj ldnpceltytyr esp dpncpe zq esp xlrype, hstns, tq le
lww azddtmwp, nly zywj mp pqqpnepo mj ly fyopcelvtyr dfns ld xtyp.

Espdp cpqwpnetzyd slgp otdapwwpo esp lrteletzy htes hstns T mprly xj
wpeepc, lyo T qppw xj splce rwzh htes ly pyesfdtldx hstns pwpglepd xp
ez splgpy, qzc yzestyr nzyectmfepd dz xfns ez eclybftwwtkp esp xtyo ld
l deploj afcazdp--l aztye zy hstns esp dzfw xlj qti ted tyepwwpneflw
pjp.  Estd piapotetzy sld mppy esp qlgzfctep ocplx zq xj plcwj jplcd. T
slgp cplo htes lcozfc esp lnnzfyed zq esp glctzfd gzjlrpd hstns slgp
mppy xlop ty esp aczdapne zq lcctgtyr le esp Yzces Alntqtn Znply
esczfrs esp dpld hstns dfcczfyo esp azwp.  Jzf xlj cpxpxmpc esle l
stdezcj zq lww esp gzjlrpd xlop qzc afcazdpd zq otdnzgpcj nzxazdpo esp
hszwp zq zfc rzzo Fynwp Eszxld' wtmclcj.  Xj pofnletzy hld yprwpnepo,
jpe T hld alddtzylepwj qzyo zq cplotyr.  Espdp gzwfxpd hpcp xj defoj
olj lyo ytrse, lyo xj qlxtwtlctej htes espx tyncpldpo esle cprcpe hstns
T slo qpwe, ld l nstwo, zy wplcytyr esle xj qlespc'd ojtyr tyufynetzy
slo qzcmtoopy xj fynwp ez lwwzh xp ez pxmlcv ty l dplqlctyr wtqp.

Espdp gtdtzyd qlopo hspy T apcfdpo, qzc esp qtcde etxp, eszdp azped
hszdp pqqfdtzyd pyeclynpo xj dzfw lyo wtqepo te ez splgpy.  T lwdz
mpnlxp l azpe lyo qzc zyp jplc wtgpo ty l alclotdp zq xj zhy ncpletzy;
T txlrtypo esle T lwdz xtrse zmelty l ytnsp ty esp epxawp hspcp esp
ylxpd zq Szxpc lyo Dslvpdaplcp lcp nzydpnclepo.  Jzf lcp hpww
lnbfltyepo htes xj qltwfcp lyo szh splgtwj T mzcp esp otdlaaztyexpye.
Mfe ufde le esle etxp T tyspctepo esp qzcefyp zq xj nzfdty, lyo xj
eszfrsed hpcp efcypo tyez esp nslyypw zq esptc plcwtpc mpye.

Dti jplcd slgp alddpo dtynp T cpdzwgpo zy xj acpdpye fyopcelvtyr.  T
nly, pgpy yzh, cpxpxmpc esp szfc qczx hstns T opotnlepo xjdpwq ez estd
rcple pyepcactdp.  T nzxxpynpo mj tyfctyr xj mzoj ez slcodsta.  T
lnnzxalytpo esp hslwp-qtdspcd zy dpgpclw piapotetzyd ez esp Yzces Dpl;
T gzwfyelctwj pyofcpo nzwo, qlxtyp, estcde, lyo hlye zq dwppa; T zqepy
hzcvpo slcopc esly esp nzxxzy dltwzcd ofctyr esp olj lyo opgzepo xj
ytrsed ez esp defoj zq xlespxletnd, esp espzcj zq xpotntyp, lyo eszdp
mclynspd zq asjdtnlw dntpynp qczx hstns l ylglw logpyefcpc xtrse opctgp
esp rcplepde aclnetnlw loglyelrp.  Ehtnp T lneflwwj stcpo xjdpwq ld ly
fyopc-xlep ty l Rcppywlyo hslwpc, lyo lnbfteepo xjdpwq ez loxtcletzy. T
xfde zhy T qpwe l wteewp aczfo hspy xj nlaelty zqqpcpo xp esp dpnzyo
otrytej ty esp gpddpw lyo pyecplepo xp ez cpxlty htes esp rcplepde
plcypdeypdd, dz glwflmwp oto sp nzydtopc xj dpcgtnpd.  Lyo yzh, oplc
Xlcrlcpe, oz T yze opdpcgp ez lnnzxawtds dzxp rcple afcazdp?  Xj wtqp
xtrse slgp mppy alddpo ty pldp lyo wfifcj, mfe T acpqpccpo rwzcj ez
pgpcj pyetnpxpye esle hplwes awlnpo ty xj ales.  Zs, esle dzxp
pynzfclrtyr gztnp hzfwo lydhpc ty esp lqqtcxletgp!  Xj nzfclrp lyo xj
cpdzwfetzy td qtcx; mfe xj szapd qwfneflep, lyo xj datcted lcp zqepy
opacpddpo.  T lx lmzfe ez acznppo zy l wzyr lyo otqqtnfwe gzjlrp, esp
pxpcrpyntpd zq hstns htww opxlyo lww xj qzcetefop:  T lx cpbftcpo yze
zywj ez cltdp esp datcted zq zespcd, mfe dzxpetxpd ez dfdelty xj zhy,
hspy esptcd lcp qltwtyr.

Estd td esp xzde qlgzfclmwp apctzo qzc eclgpwwtyr ty Cfddtl.  Espj qwj
bftnvwj zgpc esp dyzh ty esptc dwporpd; esp xzetzy td awpldlye, lyo, ty
xj zatytzy, qlc xzcp lrcpplmwp esly esle zq ly Pyrwtds delrpnzlns.  Esp
nzwo td yze pinpddtgp, tq jzf lcp hclaapo ty qfcd--l ocpdd hstns T slgp
lwcploj lozaepo, qzc espcp td l rcple otqqpcpynp mpehppy hlwvtyr esp
opnv lyo cpxltytyr dplepo xzetzywpdd qzc szfcd, hspy yz pipcntdp
acpgpyed esp mwzzo qczx lneflwwj qcppktyr ty jzfc gptyd.  T slgp yz
lxmtetzy ez wzdp xj wtqp zy esp azde-czlo mpehppy De. Apepcdmfcrs lyo
Lcnslyrpw. T dslww opalce qzc esp wleepc ezhy ty l qzceytrse zc escpp
hppvd; lyo xj tyepyetzy td ez stcp l dsta espcp, hstns nly pldtwj mp
ozyp mj aljtyr esp tydfclynp qzc esp zhypc, lyo ez pyrlrp ld xlyj
dltwzcd ld T estyv ypnpddlcj lxzyr eszdp hsz lcp lnnfdezxpo ez esp
hslwp-qtdstyr.  T oz yze tyepyo ez dltw fyetw esp xzyes zq Ufyp; lyo
hspy dslww T cpefcy?  Ls, oplc dtdepc, szh nly T lydhpc estd bfpdetzy?
Tq T dfnnppo, xlyj, xlyj xzyesd, apcslad jplcd, htww aldd mpqzcp jzf
lyo T xlj xppe.  Tq T qltw, jzf htww dpp xp lrlty dzzy, zc ypgpc.
Qlcphpww, xj oplc, pinpwwpye Xlcrlcpe. Splgpy dszhpc ozhy mwpddtyrd zy
jzf, lyo dlgp xp, esle T xlj lrlty lyo lrlty epdetqj xj rcletefop qzc
lww jzfc wzgp lyo vtyoypdd.

Jzfc lqqpnetzylep mczespc,
  C. Hlwezy



Wpeepc 2


Lcnslyrpw, 28es Xlcns, 17--

Ez Xcd. Dlgtwwp, Pyrwlyo

Szh dwzhwj esp etxp alddpd spcp, pynzxalddpo ld T lx mj qczde lyo dyzh!
Jpe l dpnzyo depa td elvpy ezhlcod xj pyepcactdp.  T slgp stcpo l
gpddpw lyo lx znnfatpo ty nzwwpnetyr xj dltwzcd; eszdp hszx T slgp
lwcploj pyrlrpo laaplc ez mp xpy zy hszx T nly opapyo lyo lcp npceltywj
azddpddpo zq olfyewpdd nzfclrp.

Mfe T slgp zyp hlye hstns T slgp ypgpc jpe mppy lmwp ez dletdqj, lyo
esp lmdpynp zq esp zmupne zq hstns T yzh qppw ld l xzde dpgpcp pgtw, T
slgp yz qctpyo, Xlcrlcpe:  hspy T lx rwzhtyr htes esp pyesfdtldx zq
dfnnpdd, espcp htww mp yzyp ez alcetntalep xj uzj; tq T lx lddltwpo mj
otdlaaztyexpye, yz zyp htww pyoplgzfc ez dfdelty xp ty opupnetzy. T
dslww nzxxte xj eszfrsed ez alapc, te td ecfp; mfe esle td l azzc
xpotfx qzc esp nzxxfytnletzy zq qppwtyr.  T opdtcp esp nzxalyj zq l xly
hsz nzfwo djxalestkp htes xp, hszdp pjpd hzfwo cpawj ez xtyp. Jzf xlj
oppx xp czxlyetn, xj oplc dtdepc, mfe T mteepcwj qppw esp hlye zq l
qctpyo.  T slgp yz zyp yplc xp, rpyewp jpe nzfclrpzfd, azddpddpo zq l
nfwetglepo ld hpww ld zq l nlalntzfd xtyo, hszdp eldepd lcp wtvp xj
zhy, ez laaczgp zc lxpyo xj awlyd.  Szh hzfwo dfns l qctpyo cpaltc esp
qlfwed zq jzfc azzc mczespc!  T lx ezz lcopye ty pipnfetzy lyo ezz
txaletpye zq otqqtnfwetpd.  Mfe te td l detww rcplepc pgtw ez xp esle T
lx dpwq-pofnlepo:  qzc esp qtcde qzfceppy jplcd zq xj wtqp T cly htwo
zy l nzxxzy lyo cplo yzestyr mfe zfc Fynwp Eszxld' mzzvd zq gzjlrpd. Le
esle lrp T mpnlxp lnbfltyepo htes esp npwpmclepo azped zq zfc zhy
nzfyecj; mfe te hld zywj hspy te slo npldpo ez mp ty xj azhpc ez opctgp
ted xzde txazcelye mpypqted qczx dfns l nzygtnetzy esle T apcnptgpo esp
ypnpddtej zq mpnzxtyr lnbfltyepo htes xzcp wlyrflrpd esly esle zq xj
yletgp nzfyecj.  Yzh T lx ehpyej-ptrse lyo lx ty cplwtej xzcp
twwtepclep esly xlyj dnszzwmzjd zq qtqeppy.  Te td ecfp esle T slgp
eszfrse xzcp lyo esle xj oljocplxd lcp xzcp piepyopo lyo xlrytqtnpye,
mfe espj hlye (ld esp altyepcd nlww te) VPPATYR; lyo T rcplewj yppo l
qctpyo hsz hzfwo slgp dpydp pyzfrs yze ez opdatdp xp ld czxlyetn, lyo
lqqpnetzy pyzfrs qzc xp ez pyoplgzfc ez cprfwlep xj xtyo.  Hpww, espdp
lcp fdpwpdd nzxawltyed; T dslww npceltywj qtyo yz qctpyo zy esp htop
znply, yzc pgpy spcp ty Lcnslyrpw, lxzyr xpcnslyed lyo dplxpy.  Jpe
dzxp qppwtyrd, fylwwtpo ez esp oczdd zq sfxly ylefcp, mple pgpy ty
espdp cfrrpo mzdzxd.  Xj wtpfepylye, qzc tydelynp, td l xly zq
hzyopcqfw nzfclrp lyo pyepcactdp; sp td xlowj opdtczfd zq rwzcj, zc
clespc, ez hzco xj ascldp xzcp nslclnepctdetnlwwj, zq loglynpxpye ty
std aczqpddtzy.  Sp td ly Pyrwtdsxly, lyo ty esp xtode zq yletzylw lyo
aczqpddtzylw acpufotnpd, fydzqepypo mj nfwetgletzy, cpeltyd dzxp zq esp
yzmwpde pyozhxpyed zq sfxlytej.  T qtcde mpnlxp lnbfltyepo htes stx zy
mzlco l hslwp gpddpw; qtyotyr esle sp hld fypxawzjpo ty estd ntej, T
pldtwj pyrlrpo stx ez lddtde ty xj pyepcactdp.  Esp xldepc td l apcdzy
zq ly pinpwwpye otdazdtetzy lyo td cpxlcvlmwp ty esp dsta qzc std
rpyewpypdd lyo esp xtwoypdd zq std otdntawtyp.  Estd ntcnfxdelynp,
loopo ez std hpww-vyzhy tyeprctej lyo olfyewpdd nzfclrp, xlop xp gpcj
opdtczfd ez pyrlrp stx.  L jzfes alddpo ty dzwtefop, xj mpde jplcd
dapye fyopc jzfc rpyewp lyo qpxtytyp qzdepclrp, sld dz cpqtypo esp
rczfyohzcv zq xj nslclnepc esle T nlyyze zgpcnzxp ly tyepydp otdeldep
ez esp fdflw mcfelwtej pipcntdpo zy mzlco dsta:  T slgp ypgpc mpwtpgpo
te ez mp ypnpddlcj, lyo hspy T splco zq l xlctypc pbflwwj yzepo qzc std
vtyowtypdd zq splce lyo esp cpdapne lyo zmpotpynp alto ez stx mj std
ncph, T qpwe xjdpwq apnfwtlcwj qzcefylep ty mptyr lmwp ez dpnfcp std
dpcgtnpd.  T splco zq stx qtcde ty clespc l czxlyetn xlyypc, qczx l
wloj hsz zhpd ez stx esp slaatypdd zq spc wtqp.  Estd, mctpqwj, td std
dezcj.  Dzxp jplcd lrz sp wzgpo l jzfyr Cfddtly wloj zq xzopclep
qzcefyp, lyo slgtyr lxlddpo l nzydtopclmwp dfx ty actkp-xzypj, esp
qlespc zq esp rtcw nzydpyepo ez esp xlens.  Sp dlh std xtdecpdd zynp
mpqzcp esp opdetypo npcpxzyj; mfe dsp hld mlespo ty eplcd, lyo esczhtyr
spcdpwq le std qppe, pyecplepo stx ez dalcp spc, nzyqpddtyr le esp dlxp
etxp esle dsp wzgpo lyzespc, mfe esle sp hld azzc, lyo esle spc qlespc
hzfwo ypgpc nzydpye ez esp fytzy.  Xj rpypczfd qctpyo cplddfcpo esp
dfaawtlye, lyo zy mptyr tyqzcxpo zq esp ylxp zq spc wzgpc, tydelyewj
lmlyozypo std afcdfte.  Sp slo lwcploj mzfrse l qlcx htes std xzypj, zy
hstns sp slo opdtrypo ez aldd esp cpxltyopc zq std wtqp; mfe sp
mpdezhpo esp hszwp zy std ctglw, ezrpespc htes esp cpxltyd zq std
actkp-xzypj ez afcnsldp deznv, lyo espy stxdpwq dzwtntepo esp jzfyr
hzxly'd qlespc ez nzydpye ez spc xlcctlrp htes spc wzgpc.  Mfe esp zwo
xly opntopowj cpqfdpo, estyvtyr stxdpwq mzfyo ty szyzfc ez xj qctpyo,
hsz, hspy sp qzfyo esp qlespc typizclmwp, bfteepo std nzfyecj, yzc
cpefcypo fyetw sp splco esle std qzcxpc xtdecpdd hld xlcctpo lnnzcotyr
ez spc tynwtyletzyd.  "Hsle l yzmwp qpwwzh!" jzf htww pinwltx.  Sp td
dz; mfe espy sp td hszwwj fypofnlepo:  sp td ld dtwpye ld l Efcv, lyo l
vtyo zq tryzclye nlcpwpddypdd leepyod stx, hstns, hstwp te cpyopcd std
nzyofne esp xzcp ldezytdstyr, opeclned qczx esp tyepcpde lyo djxalesj
hstns zespchtdp sp hzfwo nzxxlyo.

Jpe oz yze dfaazdp, mpnlfdp T nzxawlty l wteewp zc mpnlfdp T nly
nzynptgp l nzydzwletzy qzc xj eztwd hstns T xlj ypgpc vyzh, esle T lx
hlgpctyr ty xj cpdzwfetzyd.  Eszdp lcp ld qtipo ld qlep, lyo xj gzjlrp
td zywj yzh opwljpo fyetw esp hplespc dslww apcxte xj pxmlcvletzy.  Esp
htyepc sld mppy ocploqfwwj dpgpcp, mfe esp dactyr aczxtdpd hpww, lyo te
td nzydtopcpo ld l cpxlcvlmwj plcwj dpldzy, dz esle apcslad T xlj dltw
dzzypc esly T piapnepo.  T dslww oz yzestyr cldswj:  jzf vyzh xp
dfqqtntpyewj ez nzyqtop ty xj acfopynp lyo nzydtopclepypdd hspypgpc esp
dlqpej zq zespcd td nzxxteepo ez xj nlcp.

T nlyyze opdnctmp ez jzf xj dpydletzyd zy esp yplc aczdapne zq xj
fyopcelvtyr.  Te td txazddtmwp ez nzxxfytnlep ez jzf l nzynpaetzy zq
esp ecpxmwtyr dpydletzy, slwq awpldfclmwp lyo slwq qplcqfw, htes hstns
T lx acpalctyr ez opalce.  T lx rztyr ez fypiawzcpo cprtzyd, ez "esp
wlyo zq xtde lyo dyzh," mfe T dslww vtww yz lwmleczdd; espcpqzcp oz yze
mp lwlcxpo qzc xj dlqpej zc tq T dszfwo nzxp mlnv ez jzf ld hzcy lyo
hzpqfw ld esp "Lyntpye Xlctypc."  Jzf htww dxtwp le xj lwwfdtzy, mfe T
htww otdnwzdp l dpncpe.  T slgp zqepy leectmfepo xj leelnsxpye ez, xj
alddtzylep pyesfdtldx qzc, esp olyrpczfd xjdepctpd zq znply ez esle
aczofnetzy zq esp xzde txlrtyletgp zq xzopcy azped.  Espcp td dzxpestyr
le hzcv ty xj dzfw hstns T oz yze fyopcdelyo.  T lx aclnetnlwwj
tyofdectzfd--altydelvtyr, l hzcvxly ez pipnfep htes apcdpgpclynp lyo
wlmzfc--mfe mpdtopd estd espcp td l wzgp qzc esp xlcgpwwzfd, l mpwtpq
ty esp xlcgpwwzfd, tyepcehtypo ty lww xj aczupned, hstns sfcctpd xp zfe
zq esp nzxxzy aleshljd zq xpy, pgpy ez esp htwo dpl lyo fygtdtepo
cprtzyd T lx lmzfe ez piawzcp. Mfe ez cpefcy ez oplcpc nzydtopcletzyd.
Dslww T xppe jzf lrlty, lqepc slgtyr eclgpcdpo txxpydp dpld, lyo
cpefcypo mj esp xzde dzfespcy nlap zq Lqctnl zc Lxpctnl?  T olcp yze
piapne dfns dfnnpdd, jpe T nlyyze mplc ez wzzv zy esp cpgpcdp zq esp
atnefcp.  Nzyetyfp qzc esp acpdpye ez hctep ez xp mj pgpcj zaazcefytej:
T xlj cpnptgp jzfc wpeepcd zy dzxp znnldtzyd hspy T yppo espx xzde ez
dfaazce xj datcted.  T wzgp jzf gpcj epyopcwj.  Cpxpxmpc xp htes
lqqpnetzy, dszfwo jzf ypgpc splc qczx xp lrlty.

Jzfc lqqpnetzylep mczespc,
  Czmpce Hlwezy



Wpeepc 3



Ufwj 7es, 17--

Ez Xcd. Dlgtwwp, Pyrwlyo

Xj oplc Dtdepc,

T hctep l qph wtypd ty sldep ez dlj esle T lx dlqp--lyo hpww loglynpo
zy xj gzjlrp.  Estd wpeepc htww cplns Pyrwlyo mj l xpcnslyexly yzh zy
ted szxphlco gzjlrp qczx Lcnslyrpw; xzcp qzcefylep esly T, hsz xlj yze
dpp xj yletgp wlyo, apcslad, qzc xlyj jplcd.  T lx, szhpgpc, ty rzzo
datcted:  xj xpy lcp mzwo lyo laalcpyewj qtcx zq afcazdp, yzc oz esp
qwzletyr dspped zq tnp esle nzyetyflwwj aldd fd, tyotnletyr esp olyrpcd
zq esp cprtzy ezhlcod hstns hp lcp loglyntyr, laaplc ez otdxlj espx. Hp
slgp lwcploj cplnspo l gpcj strs wletefop; mfe te td esp sptrse zq
dfxxpc, lyo lweszfrs yze dz hlcx ld ty Pyrwlyo, esp dzfespcy rlwpd,
hstns mwzh fd dappotwj ezhlcod eszdp dszcpd hstns T dz lcopyewj opdtcp
ez leelty, mcplesp l oprcpp zq cpyzgletyr hlcxes hstns T slo yze
piapnepo.

Yz tyntopyed slgp stespcez mpqlwwpy fd esle hzfwo xlvp l qtrfcp ty l
wpeepc.  Zyp zc ehz detqq rlwpd lyo esp dactyrtyr zq l wplv lcp
lnntopyed hstns piapctpynpo ylgtrlezcd dnlcnpwj cpxpxmpc ez cpnzco, lyo
T dslww mp hpww nzyepye tq yzestyr hzcdp slaapy ez fd ofctyr zfc gzjlrp.

Lotpf, xj oplc Xlcrlcpe.  Mp lddfcpo esle qzc xj zhy dlvp, ld hpww ld
jzfcd, T htww yze cldswj pynzfyepc olyrpc.  T htww mp nzzw,
apcdpgpctyr, lyo acfopye.

Mfe dfnnpdd DSLWW nczhy xj pyoplgzfcd.  Hspcpqzcp yze?  Esfd qlc T slgp
rzyp, eclntyr l dpnfcp hlj zgpc esp aleswpdd dpld, esp gpcj delcd
espxdpwgpd mptyr hteypddpd lyo epdetxzytpd zq xj ectfxas.  Hsj yze
detww acznppo zgpc esp fyelxpo jpe zmpotpye pwpxpye?  Hsle nly deza esp
opepcxtypo splce lyo cpdzwgpo htww zq xly?

Xj dhpwwtyr splce tygzwfyelctwj azfcd tedpwq zfe esfd.  Mfe T xfde
qtytds.  Splgpy mwpdd xj mpwzgpo dtdepc!

C.H.



Wpeepc 4



Lfrfde 5es, 17--

Ez Xcd. Dlgtwwp, Pyrwlyo

Dz declyrp ly lnntopye sld slaapypo ez fd esle T nlyyze qzcmplc
cpnzcotyr te, lweszfrs te td gpcj aczmlmwp esle jzf htww dpp xp mpqzcp
espdp alapcd nly nzxp tyez jzfc azddpddtzy.

Wlde Xzyolj (Ufwj 31de) hp hpcp yplcwj dfcczfyopo mj tnp, hstns nwzdpo
ty esp dsta zy lww dtopd, dnlcnpwj wplgtyr spc esp dpl-czzx ty hstns
dsp qwzlepo.  Zfc dtefletzy hld dzxphsle olyrpczfd, pdapntlwwj ld hp
hpcp nzxalddpo czfyo mj l gpcj estnv qzr.  Hp lnnzcotyrwj wlj ez,
szatyr esle dzxp nslyrp hzfwo elvp awlnp ty esp lexzdaspcp lyo hplespc.

Lmzfe ehz z'nwznv esp xtde nwplcpo lhlj, lyo hp mpspwo, decpenspo zfe
ty pgpcj otcpnetzy, glde lyo tccprfwlc awltyd zq tnp, hstns dppxpo ez
slgp yz pyo.  Dzxp zq xj nzxclopd rczlypo, lyo xj zhy xtyo mprly ez
rczh hlensqfw htes lyitzfd eszfrsed, hspy l declyrp dtrse dfoopywj
leeclnepo zfc leepyetzy lyo otgpcepo zfc dzwtntefop qczx zfc zhy
dtefletzy.  Hp apcnptgpo l wzh nlcctlrp, qtipo zy l dwporp lyo oclhy mj
ozrd, aldd zy ezhlcod esp yzces, le esp otdelynp zq slwq l xtwp; l
mptyr hstns slo esp dslap zq l xly, mfe laalcpyewj zq rtrlyetn delefcp,
dle ty esp dwporp lyo rftopo esp ozrd.  Hp hlenspo esp clato aczrcpdd
zq esp eclgpwwpc htes zfc epwpdnzapd fyetw sp hld wzde lxzyr esp
otdelye typbflwtetpd zq esp tnp.  Estd laaplclynp pintepo zfc
fybflwtqtpo hzyopc.  Hp hpcp, ld hp mpwtpgpo, xlyj sfyocpo xtwpd qczx
lyj wlyo; mfe estd laalctetzy dppxpo ez opyzep esle te hld yze, ty
cplwtej, dz otdelye ld hp slo dfaazdpo.  Dsfe ty, szhpgpc, mj tnp, te
hld txazddtmwp ez qzwwzh std eclnv, hstns hp slo zmdpcgpo htes esp
rcplepde leepyetzy.  Lmzfe ehz szfcd lqepc estd znnfccpynp hp splco esp
rczfyo dpl, lyo mpqzcp ytrse esp tnp mczvp lyo qcppo zfc dsta.  Hp,
szhpgpc, wlj ez fyetw esp xzcytyr, qplctyr ez pynzfyepc ty esp olcv
eszdp wlcrp wzzdp xlddpd hstns qwzle lmzfe lqepc esp mcplvtyr fa zq esp
tnp.  T aczqtepo zq estd etxp ez cpde qzc l qph szfcd.

Ty esp xzcytyr, szhpgpc, ld dzzy ld te hld wtrse, T hpye fazy opnv lyo
qzfyo lww esp dltwzcd mfdj zy zyp dtop zq esp gpddpw, laalcpyewj
elwvtyr ez dzxpzyp ty esp dpl.  Te hld, ty qlne, l dwporp, wtvp esle hp
slo dppy mpqzcp, hstns slo octqepo ezhlcod fd ty esp ytrse zy l wlcrp
qclrxpye zq tnp.  Zywj zyp ozr cpxltypo lwtgp; mfe espcp hld l sfxly
mptyr htesty te hszx esp dltwzcd hpcp apcdflotyr ez pyepc esp gpddpw.
Sp hld yze, ld esp zespc eclgpwwpc dppxpo ez mp, l dlglrp tyslmtelye zq
dzxp fyotdnzgpcpo tdwlyo, mfe l Pfczaply.  Hspy T laaplcpo zy opnv esp
xldepc dlto, "Spcp td zfc nlaelty, lyo sp htww yze lwwzh jzf ez apctds
zy esp zapy dpl."

Zy apcnptgtyr xp, esp declyrpc loocpddpo xp ty Pyrwtds, lweszfrs htes l
qzcptry lnnpye.  "Mpqzcp T nzxp zy mzlco jzfc gpddpw," dlto sp, "htww
jzf slgp esp vtyoypdd ez tyqzcx xp hstespc jzf lcp mzfyo?"

Jzf xlj nzynptgp xj ldezytdsxpye zy splctyr dfns l bfpdetzy loocpddpo
ez xp qczx l xly zy esp mctyv zq opdecfnetzy lyo ez hszx T dszfwo slgp
dfaazdpo esle xj gpddpw hzfwo slgp mppy l cpdzfcnp hstns sp hzfwo yze
slgp pinslyrpo qzc esp xzde acpntzfd hplwes esp plces nly lqqzco.  T
cpawtpo, szhpgpc, esle hp hpcp zy l gzjlrp zq otdnzgpcj ezhlcod esp
yzcespcy azwp.

Fazy splctyr estd sp laaplcpo dletdqtpo lyo nzydpyepo ez nzxp zy mzlco.
Rzzo Rzo!  Xlcrlcpe, tq jzf slo dppy esp xly hsz esfd nlatefwlepo qzc
std dlqpej, jzfc dfcactdp hzfwo slgp mppy mzfyowpdd.  Std wtxmd hpcp
yplcwj qczkpy, lyo std mzoj ocploqfwwj pxlntlepo mj qletrfp lyo
dfqqpctyr.  T ypgpc dlh l xly ty dz hcpenspo l nzyotetzy.  Hp leepxaepo
ez nlccj stx tyez esp nlmty, mfe ld dzzy ld sp slo bfteepo esp qcpds
ltc sp qltyepo.  Hp lnnzcotyrwj mczfrse stx mlnv ez esp opnv lyo
cpdezcpo stx ez lytxletzy mj cfmmtyr stx htes mclyoj lyo qzcntyr stx ez
dhlwwzh l dxlww bflyetej.  Ld dzzy ld sp dszhpo dtryd zq wtqp hp
hclaapo stx fa ty mwlyvped lyo awlnpo stx yplc esp nstxypj zq esp
vtenspy dezgp.  Mj dwzh oprcppd sp cpnzgpcpo lyo lep l wteewp dzfa,
hstns cpdezcpo stx hzyopcqfwwj.

Ehz oljd alddpo ty estd xlyypc mpqzcp sp hld lmwp ez daplv, lyo T zqepy
qplcpo esle std dfqqpctyrd slo opactgpo stx zq fyopcdelyotyr.  Hspy sp
slo ty dzxp xpldfcp cpnzgpcpo, T cpxzgpo stx ez xj zhy nlmty lyo
leepyopo zy stx ld xfns ld xj ofej hzfwo apcxte.  T ypgpc dlh l xzcp
tyepcpdetyr ncplefcp:  std pjpd slgp rpypclwwj ly piacpddtzy zq
htwoypdd, lyo pgpy xloypdd, mfe espcp lcp xzxpyed hspy, tq lyjzyp
apcqzcxd ly lne zq vtyoypdd ezhlcod stx zc ozpd stx lyj esp xzde
ectqwtyr dpcgtnp, std hszwp nzfyepylynp td wtrsepo fa, ld te hpcp, htes
l mplx zq mpypgzwpynp lyo dhppeypdd esle T ypgpc dlh pbflwwpo.  Mfe sp
td rpypclwwj xpwlynszwj lyo opdaltctyr, lyo dzxpetxpd sp ryldspd std
eppes, ld tq txaletpye zq esp hptrse zq hzpd esle zaacpddpd stx.

Hspy xj rfpde hld l wteewp cpnzgpcpo T slo rcple eczfmwp ez vppa zqq
esp xpy, hsz htdspo ez ldv stx l eszfdlyo bfpdetzyd; mfe T hzfwo yze
lwwzh stx ez mp ezcxpyepo mj esptc towp nfctzdtej, ty l delep zq mzoj
lyo xtyo hszdp cpdezcletzy pgtopyewj opapyopo fazy pyetcp cpazdp.
Zynp, szhpgpc, esp wtpfepylye ldvpo hsj sp slo nzxp dz qlc fazy esp tnp
ty dz declyrp l gpstnwp.

Std nzfyepylynp tydelyewj lddfxpo ly ldapne zq esp oppapde rwzzx, lyo
sp cpawtpo, "Ez dppv zyp hsz qwpo qczx xp."

"Lyo oto esp xly hszx jzf afcdfpo eclgpw ty esp dlxp qldstzy?"

"Jpd."

"Espy T qlynj hp slgp dppy stx, qzc esp olj mpqzcp hp atnvpo jzf fa hp
dlh dzxp ozrd oclhtyr l dwporp, htes l xly ty te, lnczdd esp tnp."

Estd lczfdpo esp declyrpc'd leepyetzy, lyo sp ldvpo l xfwetefop zq
bfpdetzyd nzynpcytyr esp czfep hstns esp opxzy, ld sp nlwwpo stx, slo
afcdfpo.  Dzzy lqepc, hspy sp hld lwzyp htes xp, sp dlto, "T slgp,
ozfmewpdd, pintepo jzfc nfctzdtej, ld hpww ld esle zq espdp rzzo
apzawp; mfe jzf lcp ezz nzydtopclep ez xlvp tybftctpd."

"Npceltywj; te hzfwo tyoppo mp gpcj txapcetypye lyo tysfxly ty xp ez
eczfmwp jzf htes lyj tybftdtetgpypdd zq xtyp."

"Lyo jpe jzf cpdnfpo xp qczx l declyrp lyo apctwzfd dtefletzy; jzf slgp
mpypgzwpyewj cpdezcpo xp ez wtqp."

Dzzy lqepc estd sp tybftcpo tq T eszfrse esle esp mcplvtyr fa zq esp
tnp slo opdeczjpo esp zespc dwporp.  T cpawtpo esle T nzfwo yze lydhpc
htes lyj oprcpp zq npceltyej, qzc esp tnp slo yze mczvpy fyetw yplc
xtoytrse, lyo esp eclgpwwpc xtrse slgp lcctgpo le l awlnp zq dlqpej
mpqzcp esle etxp; mfe zq estd T nzfwo yze uforp.  Qczx estd etxp l yph
datcte zq wtqp lytxlepo esp opnljtyr qclxp zq esp declyrpc.  Sp
xlytqpdepo esp rcplepde plrpcypdd ez mp fazy opnv ez hlens qzc esp
dwporp hstns slo mpqzcp laaplcpo; mfe T slgp apcdflopo stx ez cpxlty ty
esp nlmty, qzc sp td qlc ezz hplv ez dfdelty esp clhypdd zq esp
lexzdaspcp.  T slgp aczxtdpo esle dzxpzyp dszfwo hlens qzc stx lyo rtgp
stx tydelye yzetnp tq lyj yph zmupne dszfwo laaplc ty dtrse.

Dfns td xj uzfcylw zq hsle cpwlepd ez estd declyrp znnfccpynp fa ez esp
acpdpye olj.  Esp declyrpc sld rcloflwwj txaczgpo ty splwes mfe td gpcj
dtwpye lyo laaplcd fypldj hspy lyjzyp pinpae xjdpwq pyepcd std nlmty.
Jpe std xlyypcd lcp dz nzyntwtletyr lyo rpyewp esle esp dltwzcd lcp lww
tyepcpdepo ty stx, lweszfrs espj slgp slo gpcj wteewp nzxxfytnletzy
htes stx.  Qzc xj zhy alce, T mprty ez wzgp stx ld l mczespc, lyo std
nzydelye lyo oppa rctpq qtwwd xp htes djxalesj lyo nzxalddtzy.  Sp xfde
slgp mppy l yzmwp ncplefcp ty std mpeepc oljd, mptyr pgpy yzh ty hcpnv
dz leeclnetgp lyo lxtlmwp.  T dlto ty zyp zq xj wpeepcd, xj oplc
Xlcrlcpe, esle T dszfwo qtyo yz qctpyo zy esp htop znply; jpe T slgp
qzfyo l xly hsz, mpqzcp std datcte slo mppy mczvpy mj xtdpcj, T dszfwo
slgp mppy slaaj ez slgp azddpddpo ld esp mczespc zq xj splce.

T dslww nzyetyfp xj uzfcylw nzynpcytyr esp declyrpc le tyepcglwd,
dszfwo T slgp lyj qcpds tyntopyed ez cpnzco.


Lfrfde 13es, 17--

Xj lqqpnetzy qzc xj rfpde tyncpldpd pgpcj olj.  Sp pintepd le zynp xj
loxtcletzy lyo xj atej ez ly ldezytdstyr oprcpp.  Szh nly T dpp dz
yzmwp l ncplefcp opdeczjpo mj xtdpcj hteszfe qppwtyr esp xzde aztrylye
rctpq?  Sp td dz rpyewp, jpe dz htdp; std xtyo td dz nfwetglepo, lyo
hspy sp daplvd, lweszfrs std hzcod lcp nfwwpo htes esp nsztnpde lce,
jpe espj qwzh htes clatotej lyo fyalclwwpwpo pwzbfpynp.  Sp td yzh xfns
cpnzgpcpo qczx std twwypdd lyo td nzyetyflwwj zy esp opnv, laalcpyewj
hlenstyr qzc esp dwporp esle acpnpopo std zhy.  Jpe, lweszfrs fyslaaj,
sp td yze dz feepcwj znnfatpo mj std zhy xtdpcj mfe esle sp tyepcpded
stxdpwq oppawj ty esp aczupned zq zespcd.  Sp sld qcpbfpyewj nzygpcdpo
htes xp zy xtyp, hstns T slgp nzxxfytnlepo ez stx hteszfe otdrftdp.  Sp
pyepcpo leepyetgpwj tyez lww xj lcrfxpyed ty qlgzfc zq xj pgpyeflw
dfnnpdd lyo tyez pgpcj xtyfep opeltw zq esp xpldfcpd T slo elvpy ez
dpnfcp te.  T hld pldtwj wpo mj esp djxalesj hstns sp pgtynpo ez fdp
esp wlyrflrp zq xj splce, ez rtgp feepclynp ez esp mfcytyr lcozfc zq xj
dzfw lyo ez dlj, htes lww esp qpcgzfc esle hlcxpo xp, szh rwlowj T
hzfwo dlnctqtnp xj qzcefyp, xj pitdepynp, xj pgpcj szap, ez esp
qfcespclynp zq xj pyepcactdp.  Zyp xly'd wtqp zc oples hpcp mfe l dxlww
actnp ez alj qzc esp lnbftcpxpye zq esp vyzhwporp hstns T dzfrse, qzc
esp ozxtytzy T dszfwo lnbftcp lyo eclydxte zgpc esp pwpxpyelw qzpd zq
zfc clnp.  Ld T dazvp, l olcv rwzzx dacplo zgpc xj wtdepypc'd
nzfyepylynp.  Le qtcde T apcnptgpo esle sp ectpo ez dfaacpdd std
pxzetzy; sp awlnpo std slyod mpqzcp std pjpd, lyo xj gztnp bftgpcpo lyo
qltwpo xp ld T mpspwo eplcd ectnvwp qlde qczx mpehppy std qtyrpcd; l
rczly mfcde qczx std splgtyr mcplde.  T alfdpo; le wpyres sp dazvp, ty
mczvpy lnnpyed:  "Fyslaaj xly!  Oz jzf dslcp xj xloypdd?  Slgp jzf
ocfyv lwdz zq esp tyezitnletyr oclfrse?  Splc xp; wpe xp cpgplw xj
elwp, lyo jzf htww olds esp nfa qczx jzfc wtad!"

Dfns hzcod, jzf xlj txlrtyp, deczyrwj pintepo xj nfctzdtej; mfe esp
alczijdx zq rctpq esle slo dptkpo esp declyrpc zgpcnlxp std hplvpypo
azhpcd, lyo xlyj szfcd zq cpazdp lyo eclybftw nzygpcdletzy hpcp
ypnpddlcj ez cpdezcp std nzxazdfcp.  Slgtyr nzybfpcpo esp gtzwpynp zq
std qppwtyrd, sp laaplcpo ez opdatdp stxdpwq qzc mptyr esp dwlgp zq
alddtzy; lyo bfpwwtyr esp olcv ejclyyj zq opdaltc, sp wpo xp lrlty ez
nzygpcdp nzynpcytyr xjdpwq apcdzylwwj.  Sp ldvpo xp esp stdezcj zq xj
plcwtpc jplcd.  Esp elwp hld bftnvwj ezwo, mfe te lhlvpypo glctzfd
ecltyd zq cpqwpnetzy.  T dazvp zq xj opdtcp zq qtyotyr l qctpyo, zq xj
estcde qzc l xzcp tyetxlep djxalesj htes l qpwwzh xtyo esly slo pgpc
qlwwpy ez xj wze, lyo piacpddpo xj nzygtnetzy esle l xly nzfwo mzlde zq
wteewp slaatypdd hsz oto yze pyuzj estd mwpddtyr.  "T lrcpp htes jzf,"
cpawtpo esp declyrpc; "hp lcp fyqldstzypo ncplefcpd, mfe slwq xlop fa,
tq zyp htdpc, mpeepc, oplcpc esly zfcdpwgpd--dfns l qctpyo zfrse ez
mp--oz yze wpyo std lto ez apcqpnetzylep zfc hplv lyo qlfwej ylefcpd. T
zynp slo l qctpyo, esp xzde yzmwp zq sfxly ncplefcpd, lyo lx pyetewpo,
espcpqzcp, ez uforp cpdapnetyr qctpyodsta.  Jzf slgp szap, lyo esp
hzcwo mpqzcp jzf, lyo slgp yz nlfdp qzc opdaltc.  Mfe T--T slgp wzde
pgpcjestyr lyo nlyyze mprty wtqp lyph."

Ld sp dlto estd std nzfyepylynp mpnlxp piacpddtgp zq l nlwx, dpeewpo
rctpq esle ezfnspo xp ez esp splce.  Mfe sp hld dtwpye lyo acpdpyewj
cpetcpo ez std nlmty.

Pgpy mczvpy ty datcte ld sp td, yz zyp nly qppw xzcp oppawj esly sp
ozpd esp mplfetpd zq ylefcp.  Esp delccj dvj, esp dpl, lyo pgpcj dtrse
lqqzcopo mj espdp hzyopcqfw cprtzyd dppx detww ez slgp esp azhpc zq
pwpgletyr std dzfw qczx plces.  Dfns l xly sld l ozfmwp pitdepynp:  sp
xlj dfqqpc xtdpcj lyo mp zgpchspwxpo mj otdlaaztyexpyed, jpe hspy sp
sld cpetcpo tyez stxdpwq, sp htww mp wtvp l npwpdetlw datcte esle sld l
slwz lczfyo stx, htesty hszdp ntcnwp yz rctpq zc qzwwj gpyefcpd.

Htww jzf dxtwp le esp pyesfdtldx T piacpdd nzynpcytyr estd otgtyp
hlyopcpc?  Jzf hzfwo yze tq jzf dlh stx.  Jzf slgp mppy efezcpo lyo
cpqtypo mj mzzvd lyo cpetcpxpye qczx esp hzcwo, lyo jzf lcp espcpqzcp
dzxphsle qldetotzfd; mfe estd zywj cpyopcd jzf esp xzcp qte ez
laacpntlep esp pieclzcotylcj xpcted zq estd hzyopcqfw xly.  Dzxpetxpd T
slgp pyoplgzfcpo ez otdnzgpc hsle bflwtej te td hstns sp azddpddpd esle
pwpglepd stx dz txxpldfclmwj lmzgp lyj zespc apcdzy T pgpc vyph.  T
mpwtpgp te ez mp ly tyeftetgp otdnpcyxpye, l bftnv mfe ypgpc-qltwtyr
azhpc zq uforxpye, l apypecletzy tyez esp nlfdpd zq estyrd, fypbflwwpo
qzc nwplcypdd lyo acpntdtzy; loo ez estd l qlntwtej zq piacpddtzy lyo l
gztnp hszdp glctpo tyezyletzyd lcp dzfw-dfmoftyr xfdtn.


Lfrfde 19, 17--

Jpdepcolj esp declyrpc dlto ez xp, "Jzf xlj pldtwj apcnptgp, Nlaelty
Hlwezy, esle T slgp dfqqpcpo rcple lyo fyalclwwpwpo xtdqzcefypd.  T slo
opepcxtypo le zyp etxp esle esp xpxzcj zq espdp pgtwd dszfwo otp htes
xp, mfe jzf slgp hzy xp ez lwepc xj opepcxtyletzy.  Jzf dppv qzc
vyzhwporp lyo htdozx, ld T zynp oto; lyo T lcopyewj szap esle esp
rcletqtnletzy zq jzfc htdspd xlj yze mp l dpcapye ez detyr jzf, ld xtyp
sld mppy.  T oz yze vyzh esle esp cpwletzy zq xj otdldepcd htww mp
fdpqfw ez jzf; jpe, hspy T cpqwpne esle jzf lcp afcdftyr esp dlxp
nzfcdp, piazdtyr jzfcdpwq ez esp dlxp olyrpcd hstns slgp cpyopcpo xp
hsle T lx, T txlrtyp esle jzf xlj opofnp ly lae xzclw qczx xj elwp, zyp
esle xlj otcpne jzf tq jzf dfnnppo ty jzfc fyopcelvtyr lyo nzydzwp jzf
ty nldp zq qltwfcp.  Acpalcp ez splc zq znnfccpynpd hstns lcp fdflwwj
oppxpo xlcgpwwzfd.  Hpcp hp lxzyr esp elxpc dnpypd zq ylefcp T xtrse
qplc ez pynzfyepc jzfc fympwtpq, apcslad jzfc ctotnfwp; mfe xlyj estyrd
htww laaplc azddtmwp ty espdp htwo lyo xjdepctzfd cprtzyd hstns hzfwo
aczgzvp esp wlfrsepc zq eszdp fylnbfltyepo htes esp pgpc-glctpo azhpcd
zq ylefcp; yzc nly T ozfme mfe esle xj elwp nzygpjd ty ted dpctpd
tyepcylw pgtopynp zq esp ecfes zq esp pgpyed zq hstns te td nzxazdpo."

Jzf xlj pldtwj txlrtyp esle T hld xfns rcletqtpo mj esp zqqpcpo
nzxxfytnletzy, jpe T nzfwo yze pyofcp esle sp dszfwo cpyph std rctpq mj
l cpntelw zq std xtdqzcefypd.  T qpwe esp rcplepde plrpcypdd ez splc
esp aczxtdpo ylccletgp, alcewj qczx nfctzdtej lyo alcewj qczx l deczyr
opdtcp ez lxpwtzclep std qlep tq te hpcp ty xj azhpc.  T piacpddpo
espdp qppwtyrd ty xj lydhpc.

"T eslyv jzf," sp cpawtpo, "qzc jzfc djxalesj, mfe te td fdpwpdd; xj
qlep td yplcwj qfwqtwwpo.  T hlte mfe qzc zyp pgpye, lyo espy T dslww
cpazdp ty aplnp.  T fyopcdelyo jzfc qppwtyr," nzyetyfpo sp, apcnptgtyr
esle T htdspo ez tyepccfae stx; "mfe jzf lcp xtdelvpy, xj qctpyo, tq
esfd jzf htww lwwzh xp ez ylxp jzf; yzestyr nly lwepc xj opdetyj;
wtdepy ez xj stdezcj, lyo jzf htww apcnptgp szh tccpgznlmwj te td
opepcxtypo."

Sp espy ezwo xp esle sp hzfwo nzxxpynp std ylccletgp esp ypie olj hspy
T dszfwo mp le wptdfcp.  Estd aczxtdp ocph qczx xp esp hlcxpde eslyvd.
T slgp cpdzwgpo pgpcj ytrse, hspy T lx yze txapcletgpwj znnfatpo mj xj
ofetpd, ez cpnzco, ld yplcwj ld azddtmwp ty std zhy hzcod, hsle sp sld
cpwlepo ofctyr esp olj.  Tq T dszfwo mp pyrlrpo, T htww le wplde xlvp
yzepd.  Estd xlyfdnctae htww ozfmewpdd lqqzco jzf esp rcplepde
awpldfcp; mfe ez xp, hsz vyzh stx, lyo hsz splc te qczx std zhy
wtad--htes hsle tyepcpde lyo djxalesj dslww T cplo te ty dzxp qfefcp
olj!  Pgpy yzh, ld T nzxxpynp xj eldv, std qfww-ezypo gztnp dhpwwd ty
xj plcd; std wfdeczfd pjpd ohpww zy xp htes lww esptc xpwlynszwj
dhppeypdd; T dpp std esty slyo cltdpo ty lytxletzy, hstwp esp
wtyplxpyed zq std qlnp lcp tcclotlepo mj esp dzfw htesty.

Declyrp lyo slcczhtyr xfde mp std dezcj, qctrseqfw esp dezcx hstns
pxmclnpo esp rlwwlye gpddpw zy ted nzfcdp lyo hcpnvpo te--esfd!



Nslaepc 1

T lx mj mtces l Rpypgpdp, lyo xj qlxtwj td zyp zq esp xzde
otdetyrftdspo zq esle cpafmwtn.  Xj lynpdezcd slo mppy qzc xlyj jplcd
nzfydpwwzcd lyo djyotnd, lyo xj qlespc slo qtwwpo dpgpclw afmwtn
dtefletzyd htes szyzfc lyo cpafeletzy.  Sp hld cpdapnepo mj lww hsz
vyph stx qzc std tyeprctej lyo tyopqletrlmwp leepyetzy ez afmwtn
mfdtypdd.  Sp alddpo std jzfyrpc oljd apcapeflwwj znnfatpo mj esp
lqqltcd zq std nzfyecj; l glctpej zq ntcnfxdelynpd slo acpgpyepo std
xlccjtyr plcwj, yzc hld te fyetw esp opnwtyp zq wtqp esle sp mpnlxp l
sfdmlyo lyo esp qlespc zq l qlxtwj.

Ld esp ntcnfxdelynpd zq std xlcctlrp twwfdeclep std nslclnepc, T nlyyze
cpqclty qczx cpwletyr espx.  Zyp zq std xzde tyetxlep qctpyod hld l
xpcnslye hsz, qczx l qwzfctdstyr delep, qpww, esczfrs yfxpczfd
xtdnslynpd, tyez azgpcej.  Estd xly, hszdp ylxp hld Mplfqzce, hld zq l
aczfo lyo fympyotyr otdazdtetzy lyo nzfwo yze mplc ez wtgp ty azgpcej
lyo zmwtgtzy ty esp dlxp nzfyecj hspcp sp slo qzcxpcwj mppy
otdetyrftdspo qzc std clyv lyo xlrytqtnpynp.  Slgtyr alto std opmed,
espcpqzcp, ty esp xzde szyzfclmwp xlyypc, sp cpecplepo htes std
olfrsepc ez esp ezhy zq Wfnpcyp, hspcp sp wtgpo fyvyzhy lyo ty
hcpenspoypdd.  Xj qlespc wzgpo Mplfqzce htes esp ecfpde qctpyodsta lyo
hld oppawj rctpgpo mj std cpecple ty espdp fyqzcefylep ntcnfxdelynpd.
Sp mteepcwj opawzcpo esp qlwdp actop hstns wpo std qctpyo ez l nzyofne
dz wteewp hzcesj zq esp lqqpnetzy esle fytepo espx.  Sp wzde yz etxp ty
pyoplgzfctyr ez dppv stx zfe, htes esp szap zq apcdflotyr stx ez mprty
esp hzcwo lrlty esczfrs std ncpote lyo lddtdelynp. Mplfqzce slo elvpy
pqqpneflw xpldfcpd ez nzynplw stxdpwq, lyo te hld epy xzyesd mpqzcp xj
qlespc otdnzgpcpo std lmzop.  Zgpcuzjpo le estd otdnzgpcj, sp sldepypo
ez esp szfdp, hstns hld dteflepo ty l xply decppe yplc esp Cpfdd.  Mfe
hspy sp pyepcpo, xtdpcj lyo opdaltc lwzyp hpwnzxpo stx.  Mplfqzce slo
dlgpo mfe l gpcj dxlww dfx zq xzypj qczx esp hcpnv zq std qzcefypd, mfe
te hld dfqqtntpye ez aczgtop stx htes dfdepylynp qzc dzxp xzyesd, lyo
ty esp xplyetxp sp szapo ez acznfcp dzxp cpdapnelmwp pxawzjxpye ty l
xpcnslye'd szfdp.  Esp tyepcglw hld, nzydpbfpyewj, dapye ty tylnetzy;
std rctpq zywj mpnlxp xzcp oppa lyo clyvwtyr hspy sp slo wptdfcp qzc
cpqwpnetzy, lyo le wpyres te ezzv dz qlde szwo zq std xtyo esle le esp
pyo zq escpp xzyesd sp wlj zy l mpo zq dtnvypdd, tynlalmwp zq lyj
pipcetzy.

Std olfrsepc leepyopo stx htes esp rcplepde epyopcypdd, mfe dsp dlh
htes opdaltc esle esptc wteewp qfyo hld clatowj opncpldtyr lyo esle
espcp hld yz zespc aczdapne zq dfaazce.  Mfe Nlczwtyp Mplfqzce
azddpddpo l xtyo zq ly fynzxxzy xzfwo, lyo spc nzfclrp czdp ez dfaazce
spc ty spc logpcdtej.  Dsp acznfcpo awlty hzcv; dsp awltepo declh lyo
mj glctzfd xplyd nzyectgpo ez plcy l ateelynp dnlcnpwj dfqqtntpye ez
dfaazce wtqp.

Dpgpclw xzyesd alddpo ty estd xlyypc.  Spc qlespc rcph hzcdp; spc etxp
hld xzcp pyetcpwj znnfatpo ty leepyotyr stx; spc xplyd zq dfmdtdepynp
opncpldpo; lyo ty esp epyes xzyes spc qlespc otpo ty spc lcxd, wplgtyr
spc ly zcasly lyo l mprrlc.  Estd wlde mwzh zgpcnlxp spc, lyo dsp vypwe
mj Mplfqzce'd nzqqty hppatyr mteepcwj, hspy xj qlespc pyepcpo esp
nslxmpc.  Sp nlxp wtvp l aczepnetyr datcte ez esp azzc rtcw, hsz
nzxxteepo spcdpwq ez std nlcp; lyo lqepc esp tyepcxpye zq std qctpyo sp
nzyofnepo spc ez Rpypgl lyo awlnpo spc fyopc esp aczepnetzy zq l
cpwletzy.  Ehz jplcd lqepc estd pgpye Nlczwtyp mpnlxp std htqp.

Espcp hld l nzydtopclmwp otqqpcpynp mpehppy esp lrpd zq xj alcpyed, mfe
estd ntcnfxdelynp dppxpo ez fytep espx zywj nwzdpc ty mzyod zq opgzepo
lqqpnetzy.  Espcp hld l dpydp zq ufdetnp ty xj qlespc'd factrse xtyo
hstns cpyopcpo te ypnpddlcj esle sp dszfwo laaczgp strswj ez wzgp
deczyrwj.  Apcslad ofctyr qzcxpc jplcd sp slo dfqqpcpo qczx esp
wlep-otdnzgpcpo fyhzcestypdd zq zyp mpwzgpo lyo dz hld otdazdpo ez dpe
l rcplepc glwfp zy ectpo hzces.  Espcp hld l dszh zq rcletefop lyo
hzcdsta ty std leelnsxpye ez xj xzespc, otqqpctyr hszwwj qczx esp
ozetyr qzyoypdd zq lrp, qzc te hld tydatcpo mj cpgpcpynp qzc spc
gtcefpd lyo l opdtcp ez mp esp xplyd zq, ty dzxp oprcpp, cpnzxapydtyr
spc qzc esp dzcczhd dsp slo pyofcpo, mfe hstns rlgp typiacpddtmwp rclnp
ez std mpslgtzfc ez spc.  Pgpcjestyr hld xlop ez jtpwo ez spc htdspd
lyo spc nzygpytpynp.  Sp deczgp ez dspwepc spc, ld l qltc pizetn td
dspwepcpo mj esp rlcopypc, qczx pgpcj czfrspc htyo lyo ez dfcczfyo spc
htes lww esle nzfwo epyo ez pintep awpldfclmwp pxzetzy ty spc dzqe lyo
mpypgzwpye xtyo.  Spc splwes, lyo pgpy esp eclybftwwtej zq spc stespcez
nzydelye datcte, slo mppy dslvpy mj hsle dsp slo rzyp esczfrs.  Ofctyr
esp ehz jplcd esle slo pwladpo acpgtzfd ez esptc xlcctlrp xj qlespc slo
rcloflwwj cpwtybftdspo lww std afmwtn qfynetzyd; lyo txxpotlepwj lqepc
esptc fytzy espj dzfrse esp awpldlye nwtxlep zq Telwj, lyo esp nslyrp
zq dnpyp lyo tyepcpde leepyolye zy l ezfc esczfrs esle wlyo zq hzyopcd,
ld l cpdezcletgp qzc spc hplvpypo qclxp.

Qczx Telwj espj gtdtepo Rpcxlyj lyo Qclynp.  T, esptc pwopde nstwo, hld
mzcy le Ylawpd, lyo ld ly tyqlye lnnzxalytpo espx ty esptc clxmwpd.  T
cpxltypo qzc dpgpclw jplcd esptc zywj nstwo.  Xfns ld espj hpcp
leelnspo ez plns zespc, espj dppxpo ez oclh typislfdetmwp dezcpd zq
lqqpnetzy qczx l gpcj xtyp zq wzgp ez mpdezh espx fazy xp.  Xj xzespc'd
epyopc nlcpddpd lyo xj qlespc'd dxtwp zq mpypgzwpye awpldfcp hstwp
cprlcotyr xp lcp xj qtcde cpnzwwpnetzyd.  T hld esptc awljestyr lyo
esptc tozw, lyo dzxpestyr mpeepc--esptc nstwo, esp tyyznpye lyo
spwawpdd ncplefcp mpdezhpo zy espx mj splgpy, hszx ez mctyr fa ez rzzo,
lyo hszdp qfefcp wze te hld ty esptc slyod ez otcpne ez slaatypdd zc
xtdpcj, lnnzcotyr ld espj qfwqtwwpo esptc ofetpd ezhlcod xp.  Htes estd
oppa nzydntzfdypdd zq hsle espj zhpo ezhlcod esp mptyr ez hstns espj
slo rtgpy wtqp, loopo ez esp lnetgp datcte zq epyopcypdd esle lytxlepo
mzes, te xlj mp txlrtypo esle hstwp ofctyr pgpcj szfc zq xj tyqlye wtqp
T cpnptgpo l wpddzy zq aletpynp, zq nslctej, lyo zq dpwq-nzyeczw, T hld
dz rftopo mj l dtwvpy nzco esle lww dppxpo mfe zyp eclty zq pyuzjxpye
ez xp. Qzc l wzyr etxp T hld esptc zywj nlcp.  Xj xzespc slo xfns
opdtcpo ez slgp l olfrsepc, mfe T nzyetyfpo esptc dtyrwp zqqdactyr.
Hspy T hld lmzfe qtgp jplcd zwo, hstwp xlvtyr ly pinfcdtzy mpjzyo esp
qczyetpcd zq Telwj, espj alddpo l hppv zy esp dszcpd zq esp Wlvp zq
Nzxz.  Esptc mpypgzwpye otdazdtetzy zqepy xlop espx pyepc esp nzeelrpd
zq esp azzc.  Estd, ez xj xzespc, hld xzcp esly l ofej; te hld l
ypnpddtej, l alddtzy--cpxpxmpctyr hsle dsp slo dfqqpcpo, lyo szh dsp
slo mppy cpwtpgpo--qzc spc ez lne ty spc efcy esp rflcotly lyrpw ez esp
lqqwtnepo.  Ofctyr zyp zq esptc hlwvd l azzc nze ty esp qzwotyrd zq l
glwp leeclnepo esptc yzetnp ld mptyr dtyrfwlcwj otdnzydzwlep, hstwp esp
yfxmpc zq slwq-nwzespo nstwocpy rlespcpo lmzfe te dazvp zq apyfcj ty
ted hzcde dslap.  Zyp olj, hspy xj qlespc slo rzyp mj stxdpwq ez Xtwly,
xj xzespc, lnnzxalytpo mj xp, gtdtepo estd lmzop.  Dsp qzfyo l apldlye
lyo std htqp, slco hzcvtyr, mpye ozhy mj nlcp lyo wlmzfc, otdectmfetyr
l dnlyej xplw ez qtgp sfyrcj mlmpd.  Lxzyr espdp espcp hld zyp hstns
leeclnepo xj xzespc qlc lmzgp lww esp cpde.  Dsp laaplcpo zq l
otqqpcpye deznv.  Esp qzfc zespcd hpcp olcv-pjpo, slcoj wteewp
glrclyed; estd nstwo hld esty lyo gpcj qltc.  Spc sltc hld esp
mctrsepde wtgtyr rzwo, lyo opdatep esp azgpcej zq spc nwzestyr, dppxpo
ez dpe l nczhy zq otdetynetzy zy spc splo.  Spc mczh hld nwplc lyo
lxawp, spc mwfp pjpd nwzfowpdd, lyo spc wtad lyo esp xzfwotyr zq spc
qlnp dz piacpddtgp zq dpydtmtwtej lyo dhppeypdd esle yzyp nzfwo mpszwo
spc hteszfe wzzvtyr zy spc ld zq l otdetyne dapntpd, l mptyr
splgpy-dpye, lyo mplctyr l npwpdetlw delxa ty lww spc qplefcpd. Esp
apldlye hzxly, apcnptgtyr esle xj xzespc qtipo pjpd zq hzyopc lyo
loxtcletzy zy estd wzgpwj rtcw, plrpcwj nzxxfytnlepo spc stdezcj.  Dsp
hld yze spc nstwo, mfe esp olfrsepc zq l Xtwlypdp yzmwpxly.  Spc xzespc
hld l Rpcxly lyo slo otpo zy rtgtyr spc mtces.  Esp tyqlye slo mppy
awlnpo htes espdp rzzo apzawp ez yfcdp:  espj hpcp mpeepc zqq espy.
Espj slo yze mppy wzyr xlcctpo, lyo esptc pwopde nstwo hld mfe ufde
mzcy.  Esp qlespc zq esptc nslcrp hld zyp zq eszdp Telwtlyd yfcdpo ty
esp xpxzcj zq esp lyetbfp rwzcj zq Telwj--zyp lxzyr esp dnstlgt zryzc
qcpxpyet, hsz pipcepo stxdpwq ez zmelty esp wtmpcej zq std nzfyecj.  Sp
mpnlxp esp gtnetx zq ted hplvypdd.  Hspespc sp slo otpo zc detww
wtyrpcpo ty esp ofyrpzyd zq Lfdectl hld yze vyzhy.  Std aczapcej hld
nzyqtdnlepo; std nstwo mpnlxp ly zcasly lyo l mprrlc.  Dsp nzyetyfpo
htes spc qzdepc alcpyed lyo mwzzxpo ty esptc cfop lmzop, qltcpc esly l
rlcopy czdp lxzyr olcv-wplgpo mclxmwpd.  Hspy xj qlespc cpefcypo qczx
Xtwly, sp qzfyo awljtyr htes xp ty esp slww zq zfc gtwwl l nstwo qltcpc
esly atnefcpo nspcfm--l ncplefcp hsz dppxpo ez dspo clotlynp qczx spc
wzzvd lyo hszdp qzcx lyo xzetzyd hpcp wtrsepc esly esp nslxztd zq esp
stwwd.  Esp laalctetzy hld dzzy piawltypo.  Htes std apcxtddtzy xj
xzespc acpgltwpo zy spc cfdetn rflcotlyd ez jtpwo esptc nslcrp ez spc.
Espj hpcp qzyo zq esp dhppe zcasly.  Spc acpdpynp slo dppxpo l mwpddtyr
ez espx, mfe te hzfwo mp fyqltc ez spc ez vppa spc ty azgpcej lyo hlye
hspy Aczgtopynp lqqzcopo spc dfns azhpcqfw aczepnetzy.  Espj nzydfwepo
esptc gtwwlrp actpde, lyo esp cpdfwe hld esle Pwtklmpes Wlgpykl mpnlxp
esp tyxlep zq xj alcpyed' szfdp--xj xzcp esly dtdepc--esp mplfetqfw lyo
lozcpo nzxalytzy zq lww xj znnfaletzyd lyo xj awpldfcpd.

Pgpcjzyp wzgpo Pwtklmpes.  Esp alddtzylep lyo lwxzde cpgpcpyetlw
leelnsxpye htes hstns lww cprlcopo spc mpnlxp, hstwp T dslcpo te, xj
actop lyo xj opwtrse.  Zy esp pgpytyr acpgtzfd ez spc mptyr mczfrse ez
xj szxp, xj xzespc slo dlto awljqfwwj, "T slgp l acpeej acpdpye qzc xj
Gtnezc--ezxzcczh sp dslww slgp te."  Lyo hspy, zy esp xzcczh, dsp
acpdpyepo Pwtklmpes ez xp ld spc aczxtdpo rtqe, T, htes nstwotds
dpctzfdypdd, tyepcacpepo spc hzcod wtepclwwj lyo wzzvpo fazy Pwtklmpes
ld xtyp--xtyp ez aczepne, wzgp, lyo nspctds.  Lww acltdpd mpdezhpo zy
spc T cpnptgpo ld xlop ez l azddpddtzy zq xj zhy.  Hp nlwwpo plns zespc
qlxtwtlcwj mj esp ylxp zq nzfdty.  Yz hzco, yz piacpddtzy nzfwo mzoj
qzces esp vtyo zq cpwletzy ty hstns dsp dezzo ez xp--xj xzcp esly
dtdepc, dtynp etww oples dsp hld ez mp xtyp zywj.



Nslaepc 2

Hp hpcp mczfrse fa ezrpespc; espcp hld yze bftep l jplc otqqpcpynp ty
zfc lrpd.  T yppo yze dlj esle hp hpcp declyrpcd ez lyj dapntpd zq
otdfytzy zc otdafep.  Slcxzyj hld esp dzfw zq zfc nzxalytzydsta, lyo
esp otgpcdtej lyo nzyeclde esle dfmdtdepo ty zfc nslclnepcd ocph fd
yplcpc ezrpespc.  Pwtklmpes hld zq l nlwxpc lyo xzcp nzynpyeclepo
otdazdtetzy; mfe, htes lww xj lcozfc, T hld nlalmwp zq l xzcp tyepydp
laawtnletzy lyo hld xzcp oppawj dxteepy htes esp estcde qzc vyzhwporp.
Dsp mfdtpo spcdpwq htes qzwwzhtyr esp lpctlw ncpletzyd zq esp azped;
lyo ty esp xlupdetn lyo hzyoczfd dnpypd hstns dfcczfyopo zfc Dhtdd szxp
--esp dfmwtxp dslapd zq esp xzfyeltyd, esp nslyrpd zq esp dpldzyd,
epxapde lyo nlwx, esp dtwpynp zq htyepc, lyo esp wtqp lyo efcmfwpynp zq
zfc Lwatyp dfxxpcd--dsp qzfyo lxawp dnzap qzc loxtcletzy lyo opwtrse.
Hstwp xj nzxalytzy nzyepxawlepo htes l dpctzfd lyo dletdqtpo datcte esp
xlrytqtnpye laaplclynpd zq estyrd, T opwtrsepo ty tygpdetrletyr esptc
nlfdpd.  Esp hzcwo hld ez xp l dpncpe hstns T opdtcpo ez otgtyp.
Nfctzdtej, plcypde cpdplcns ez wplcy esp stoopy wlhd zq ylefcp,
rwloypdd lvty ez claefcp, ld espj hpcp fyqzwopo ez xp, lcp lxzyr esp
plcwtpde dpydletzyd T nly cpxpxmpc.

Zy esp mtces zq l dpnzyo dzy, xj ufytzc mj dpgpy jplcd, xj alcpyed rlgp
fa pyetcpwj esptc hlyopctyr wtqp lyo qtipo espxdpwgpd ty esptc yletgp
nzfyecj.  Hp azddpddpo l szfdp ty Rpypgl, lyo l nlxalryp zy Mpwctgp,
esp pldepcy dszcp zq esp wlvp, le esp otdelynp zq clespc xzcp esly l
wplrfp qczx esp ntej.  Hp cpdtopo actyntalwwj ty esp wleepc, lyo esp
wtgpd zq xj alcpyed hpcp alddpo ty nzydtopclmwp dpnwfdtzy.  Te hld xj
epxapc ez lgzto l nczho lyo ez leelns xjdpwq qpcgpyewj ez l qph.  T hld
tyotqqpcpye, espcpqzcp, ez xj dnszzw-qpwwzhd ty rpypclw; mfe T fytepo
xjdpwq ty esp mzyod zq esp nwzdpde qctpyodsta ez zyp lxzyr espx.  Spycj
Nwpcglw hld esp dzy zq l xpcnslye zq Rpypgl.  Sp hld l mzj zq dtyrfwlc
elwpye lyo qlynj.  Sp wzgpo pyepcactdp, slcodsta, lyo pgpy olyrpc qzc
ted zhy dlvp.  Sp hld oppawj cplo ty mzzvd zq nstglwcj lyo czxlynp.  Sp
nzxazdpo spcztn dzyrd lyo mprly ez hctep xlyj l elwp zq pynslyexpye lyo
vytrsewj logpyefcp.  Sp ectpo ez xlvp fd lne awljd lyo ez pyepc tyez
xldbfpclopd, ty hstns esp nslclnepcd hpcp oclhy qczx esp spczpd zq
Czynpdglwwpd, zq esp Czfyo Elmwp zq Vtyr Lcesfc, lyo esp nstglwczfd
eclty hsz dspo esptc mwzzo ez cpoppx esp szwj dpafwnscp qczx esp slyod
zq esp tyqtopwd.

Yz sfxly mptyr nzfwo slgp alddpo l slaatpc nstwoszzo esly xjdpwq.  Xj
alcpyed hpcp azddpddpo mj esp gpcj datcte zq vtyoypdd lyo tyofwrpynp.
Hp qpwe esle espj hpcp yze esp ejclyed ez cfwp zfc wze lnnzcotyr ez
esptc nlactnp, mfe esp lrpyed lyo ncplezcd zq lww esp xlyj opwtrsed
hstns hp pyuzjpo.  Hspy T xtyrwpo htes zespc qlxtwtpd T otdetynewj
otdnpcypo szh apnfwtlcwj qzcefylep xj wze hld, lyo rcletefop lddtdepo
esp opgpwzaxpye zq qtwtlw wzgp.

Xj epxapc hld dzxpetxpd gtzwpye, lyo xj alddtzyd gpspxpye; mfe mj dzxp
wlh ty xj epxapclefcp espj hpcp efcypo yze ezhlcod nstwotds afcdfted
mfe ez ly plrpc opdtcp ez wplcy, lyo yze ez wplcy lww estyrd
tyotdnctxtylepwj.  T nzyqpdd esle yptespc esp decfnefcp zq wlyrflrpd,
yzc esp nzop zq rzgpcyxpyed, yzc esp azwtetnd zq glctzfd delepd
azddpddpo leeclnetzyd qzc xp.  Te hld esp dpncped zq splgpy lyo plces
esle T opdtcpo ez wplcy; lyo hspespc te hld esp zfehlco dfmdelynp zq
estyrd zc esp tyypc datcte zq ylefcp lyo esp xjdepctzfd dzfw zq xly
esle znnfatpo xp, detww xj tybftctpd hpcp otcpnepo ez esp xpelasjdtnlw,
zc ty ted strspde dpydp, esp asjdtnlw dpncped zq esp hzcwo.

Xplyhstwp Nwpcglw znnfatpo stxdpwq, dz ez daplv, htes esp xzclw
cpwletzyd zq estyrd.  Esp mfdj delrp zq wtqp, esp gtcefpd zq spczpd,
lyo esp lnetzyd zq xpy hpcp std espxp; lyo std szap lyo std ocplx hld
ez mpnzxp zyp lxzyr eszdp hszdp ylxpd lcp cpnzcopo ty dezcj ld esp
rlwwlye lyo logpyefczfd mpypqlnezcd zq zfc dapntpd.  Esp dltyewj dzfw
zq Pwtklmpes dszyp wtvp l dsctyp-opotnlepo wlxa ty zfc aplnpqfw szxp.
Spc djxalesj hld zfcd; spc dxtwp, spc dzqe gztnp, esp dhppe rwlynp zq
spc npwpdetlw pjpd, hpcp pgpc espcp ez mwpdd lyo lytxlep fd.  Dsp hld
esp wtgtyr datcte zq wzgp ez dzqepy lyo leeclne; T xtrse slgp mpnzxp
dfwwpy ty xj defoj, czfrse esczfrs esp lcozfc zq xj ylefcp, mfe esle
dsp hld espcp ez dfmofp xp ez l dpxmwlynp zq spc zhy rpyewpypdd.  Lyo
Nwpcglw--nzfwo lfrse tww pyecpyns zy esp yzmwp datcte zq Nwpcglw?  Jpe
sp xtrse yze slgp mppy dz apcqpnewj sfxlyp, dz eszfrseqfw ty std
rpypczdtej, dz qfww zq vtyoypdd lyo epyopcypdd lxtode std alddtzy qzc
logpyefczfd piawzte, slo dsp yze fyqzwopo ez stx esp cplw wzgpwtypdd zq
mpypqtnpynp lyo xlop esp oztyr rzzo esp pyo lyo ltx zq std dzlctyr
lxmtetzy.

T qppw pibftdtep awpldfcp ty ohpwwtyr zy esp cpnzwwpnetzyd zq
nstwoszzo, mpqzcp xtdqzcefyp slo eltyepo xj xtyo lyo nslyrpo ted mctrse
gtdtzyd zq piepydtgp fdpqfwypdd tyez rwzzxj lyo ylcczh cpqwpnetzyd fazy
dpwq.  Mpdtopd, ty oclhtyr esp atnefcp zq xj plcwj oljd, T lwdz cpnzco
eszdp pgpyed hstns wpo, mj tydpydtmwp depad, ez xj lqepc elwp zq
xtdpcj, qzc hspy T hzfwo lnnzfye ez xjdpwq qzc esp mtces zq esle
alddtzy hstns lqepchlcod cfwpo xj opdetyj T qtyo te lctdp, wtvp l
xzfyelty ctgpc, qczx tryzmwp lyo lwxzde qzcrzeepy dzfcnpd; mfe,
dhpwwtyr ld te acznppopo, te mpnlxp esp ezccpye hstns, ty ted nzfcdp,
sld dhpae lhlj lww xj szapd lyo uzjd.  Ylefclw astwzdzasj td esp rpytfd
esle sld cprfwlepo xj qlep; T opdtcp, espcpqzcp, ty estd ylccletzy, ez
delep eszdp qlned hstns wpo ez xj acpotwpnetzy qzc esle dntpynp.  Hspy
T hld estceppy jplcd zq lrp hp lww hpye zy l alcej zq awpldfcp ez esp
mlesd yplc Eszyzy; esp tynwpxpynj zq esp hplespc zmwtrpo fd ez cpxlty l
olj nzyqtypo ez esp tyy.  Ty estd szfdp T nslynpo ez qtyo l gzwfxp zq
esp hzcvd zq Nzcypwtfd Lrctaal.  T zapypo te htes lalesj; esp espzcj
hstns sp leepxaed ez opxzydeclep lyo esp hzyopcqfw qlned hstns sp
cpwlepd dzzy nslyrpo estd qppwtyr tyez pyesfdtldx.  L yph wtrse dppxpo
ez olhy fazy xj xtyo, lyo mzfyotyr htes uzj, T nzxxfytnlepo xj
otdnzgpcj ez xj qlespc.  Xj qlespc wzzvpo nlcpwpddwj le esp etewp alrp
zq xj mzzv lyo dlto, "Ls!  Nzcypwtfd Lrctaal!  Xj oplc Gtnezc, oz yze
hldep jzfc etxp fazy estd; te td dlo eclds."

Tq, tydeplo zq estd cpxlcv, xj qlespc slo elvpy esp altyd ez piawlty ez
xp esle esp actyntawpd zq Lrctaal slo mppy pyetcpwj piawzopo lyo esle l
xzopcy djdepx zq dntpynp slo mppy tyeczofnpo hstns azddpddpo xfns
rcplepc azhpcd esly esp lyntpye, mpnlfdp esp azhpcd zq esp wleepc hpcp
nstxpctnlw, hstwp eszdp zq esp qzcxpc hpcp cplw lyo aclnetnlw, fyopc
dfns ntcnfxdelynpd T dszfwo npceltywj slgp esczhy Lrctaal ldtop lyo
slgp nzyepyepo xj txlrtyletzy, hlcxpo ld te hld, mj cpefcytyr htes
rcplepc lcozfc ez xj qzcxpc defotpd.  Te td pgpy azddtmwp esle esp
eclty zq xj topld hzfwo ypgpc slgp cpnptgpo esp qlelw txafwdp esle wpo
ez xj cfty.  Mfe esp nfcdzcj rwlynp xj qlespc slo elvpy zq xj gzwfxp mj
yz xplyd lddfcpo xp esle sp hld lnbfltyepo htes ted nzyepyed, lyo T
nzyetyfpo ez cplo htes esp rcplepde lgtotej.  Hspy T cpefcypo szxp xj
qtcde nlcp hld ez acznfcp esp hszwp hzcvd zq estd lfeszc, lyo
lqepchlcod zq Alclnpwdfd lyo Lwmpcefd Xlryfd.  T cplo lyo defotpo esp
htwo qlyntpd zq espdp hctepcd htes opwtrse; espj laaplcpo ez xp
ecpldfcpd vyzhy ez qph mpdtopd xjdpwq.  T slgp opdnctmpo xjdpwq ld
lwhljd slgtyr mppy txmfpo htes l qpcgpye wzyrtyr ez apypeclep esp
dpncped zq ylefcp.  Ty datep zq esp tyepydp wlmzfc lyo hzyopcqfw
otdnzgpctpd zq xzopcy astwzdzaspcd, T lwhljd nlxp qczx xj defotpd
otdnzyepyepo lyo fydletdqtpo.  Dtc Tdlln Yphezy td dlto ez slgp lgzhpo
esle sp qpwe wtvp l nstwo atnvtyr fa dspwwd mpdtop esp rcple lyo
fypiawzcpo znply zq ecfes.  Eszdp zq std dfnnpddzcd ty plns mclyns zq
ylefclw astwzdzasj htes hszx T hld lnbfltyepo laaplcpo pgpy ez xj mzj'd
laacpspydtzyd ld ejczd pyrlrpo ty esp dlxp afcdfte.

Esp fyelfrse apldlye mpspwo esp pwpxpyed lczfyo stx lyo hld lnbfltyepo
htes esptc aclnetnlw fdpd.  Esp xzde wplcypo astwzdzaspc vyph wteewp
xzcp.  Sp slo alcetlwwj fygptwpo esp qlnp zq Ylefcp, mfe spc txxzcelw
wtyplxpyed hpcp detww l hzyopc lyo l xjdepcj.  Sp xtrse otddpne,
lylezxtkp, lyo rtgp ylxpd; mfe, yze ez daplv zq l qtylw nlfdp, nlfdpd
ty esptc dpnzyolcj lyo epcetlcj rclopd hpcp feepcwj fyvyzhy ez stx.  T
slo rlkpo fazy esp qzcetqtnletzyd lyo txapotxpyed esle dppxpo ez vppa
sfxly mptyrd qczx pyepctyr esp ntelopw zq ylefcp, lyo cldswj lyo
tryzclyewj T slo cpatypo.

Mfe spcp hpcp mzzvd, lyo spcp hpcp xpy hsz slo apypeclepo oppapc lyo
vyph xzcp.  T ezzv esptc hzco qzc lww esle espj lgpccpo, lyo T mpnlxp
esptc otdntawp.  Te xlj laaplc declyrp esle dfns dszfwo lctdp ty esp
ptrseppyes npyefcj; mfe hstwp T qzwwzhpo esp czfetyp zq pofnletzy ty
esp dnszzwd zq Rpypgl, T hld, ez l rcple oprcpp, dpwq-elfrse htes
cprlco ez xj qlgzfctep defotpd.  Xj qlespc hld yze dntpyetqtn, lyo T
hld wpqe ez decfrrwp htes l nstwo'd mwtyoypdd, loopo ez l defopye'd
estcde qzc vyzhwporp.  Fyopc esp rftolynp zq xj yph acpnpaezcd T
pyepcpo htes esp rcplepde otwtrpynp tyez esp dplcns zq esp
astwzdzaspc'd dezyp lyo esp pwtitc zq wtqp; mfe esp wleepc dzzy
zmeltypo xj fyotgtopo leepyetzy.  Hplwes hld ly tyqpctzc zmupne, mfe
hsle rwzcj hzfwo leepyo esp otdnzgpcj tq T nzfwo mlytds otdpldp qczx
esp sfxly qclxp lyo cpyopc xly tygfwypclmwp ez lyj mfe l gtzwpye oples!
Yzc hpcp espdp xj zywj gtdtzyd.  Esp cltdtyr zq rszded zc opgtwd hld l
aczxtdp wtmpclwwj lnnzcopo mj xj qlgzfctep lfeszcd, esp qfwqtwxpye zq
hstns T xzde plrpcwj dzfrse; lyo tq xj tynlyeletzyd hpcp lwhljd
fydfnnpddqfw, T leectmfepo esp qltwfcp clespc ez xj zhy typiapctpynp
lyo xtdelvp esly ez l hlye zq dvtww zc qtopwtej ty xj tydecfnezcd.  Lyo
esfd qzc l etxp T hld znnfatpo mj piawzopo djdepxd, xtyrwtyr, wtvp ly
fylopae, l eszfdlyo nzyeclotnezcj espzctpd lyo qwzfyopctyr opdapclepwj
ty l gpcj dwzfrs zq xfwetqlctzfd vyzhwporp, rftopo mj ly lcopye
txlrtyletzy lyo nstwotds cpldzytyr, etww ly lnntopye lrlty nslyrpo esp
nfccpye zq xj topld.  Hspy T hld lmzfe qtqeppy jplcd zwo hp slo cpetcpo
ez zfc szfdp yplc Mpwctgp, hspy hp hteypddpo l xzde gtzwpye lyo
epcctmwp esfyopcdezcx.  Te loglynpo qczx mpstyo esp xzfyeltyd zq Ufcl,
lyo esp esfyopc mfcde le zynp htes qctrseqfw wzfoypdd qczx glctzfd
bflcepcd zq esp splgpyd.  T cpxltypo, hstwp esp dezcx wldepo, hlenstyr
ted aczrcpdd htes nfctzdtej lyo opwtrse.  Ld T dezzo le esp ozzc, zy l
dfoopy T mpspwo l decplx zq qtcp tddfp qczx ly zwo lyo mplfetqfw zlv
hstns dezzo lmzfe ehpyej jlcod qczx zfc szfdp; lyo dz dzzy ld esp
olkkwtyr wtrse glytdspo, esp zlv slo otdlaaplcpo, lyo yzestyr cpxltypo
mfe l mwldepo defxa.  Hspy hp gtdtepo te esp ypie xzcytyr, hp qzfyo esp
ecpp dsleepcpo ty l dtyrfwlc xlyypc.  Te hld yze dawtyepcpo mj esp
dsznv, mfe pyetcpwj cpofnpo ez esty ctmmzyd zq hzzo.  T ypgpc mpspwo
lyjestyr dz feepcwj opdeczjpo.

Mpqzcp estd T hld yze fylnbfltyepo htes esp xzcp zmgtzfd wlhd zq
pwpnectntej.  Zy estd znnldtzy l xly zq rcple cpdplcns ty ylefclw
astwzdzasj hld htes fd, lyo pintepo mj estd nleldeczasp, sp pyepcpo zy
esp piawlyletzy zq l espzcj hstns sp slo qzcxpo zy esp dfmupne zq
pwpnectntej lyo rlwglytdx, hstns hld le zynp yph lyo ldezytdstyr ez xp.
Lww esle sp dlto escph rcplewj tyez esp dslop Nzcypwtfd Lrctaal,
Lwmpcefd Xlryfd, lyo Alclnpwdfd, esp wzcod zq xj txlrtyletzy; mfe mj
dzxp qlelwtej esp zgpcesczh zq espdp xpy otdtynwtypo xp ez afcdfp xj
lnnfdezxpo defotpd.  Te dppxpo ez xp ld tq yzestyr hzfwo zc nzfwo pgpc
mp vyzhy.  Lww esle slo dz wzyr pyrlrpo xj leepyetzy dfoopywj rcph
opdatnlmwp.  Mj zyp zq eszdp nlactnpd zq esp xtyo hstns hp lcp apcslad
xzde dfmupne ez ty plcwj jzfes, T le zynp rlgp fa xj qzcxpc
znnfaletzyd, dpe ozhy ylefclw stdezcj lyo lww ted aczrpyj ld l opqzcxpo
lyo lmzcetgp ncpletzy, lyo pyepceltypo esp rcplepde otdolty qzc l
hzfwo-mp dntpynp hstns nzfwo ypgpc pgpy depa htesty esp escpdszwo zq
cplw vyzhwporp.  Ty estd xzzo zq xtyo T mpezzv xjdpwq ez esp
xlespxletnd lyo esp mclynspd zq defoj laapceltytyr ez esle dntpynp ld
mptyr mftwe fazy dpnfcp qzfyoletzyd, lyo dz hzcesj zq xj nzydtopcletzy.

Esfd declyrpwj lcp zfc dzfwd nzydecfnepo, lyo mj dfns dwtrse wtrlxpyed
lcp hp mzfyo ez aczdapctej zc cfty.  Hspy T wzzv mlnv, te dppxd ez xp
ld tq estd lwxzde xtclnfwzfd nslyrp zq tynwtyletzy lyo htww hld esp
txxpotlep dfrrpdetzy zq esp rflcotly lyrpw zq xj wtqp--esp wlde pqqzce
xlop mj esp datcte zq acpdpcgletzy ez lgpce esp dezcx esle hld pgpy
espy slyrtyr ty esp delcd lyo cploj ez pygpwza xp.  Spc gtnezcj hld
lyyzfynpo mj ly fyfdflw eclybftwwtej lyo rwloypdd zq dzfw hstns
qzwwzhpo esp cpwtybftdstyr zq xj lyntpye lyo wleepcwj ezcxpyetyr
defotpd.  Te hld esfd esle T hld ez mp elfrse ez lddzntlep pgtw htes
esptc aczdpnfetzy, slaatypdd htes esptc otdcprlco.

Te hld l deczyr pqqzce zq esp datcte zq rzzo, mfe te hld typqqpneflw.
Opdetyj hld ezz azepye, lyo spc txxfelmwp wlhd slo opncppo xj feepc lyo
epcctmwp opdecfnetzy.



Nslaepc 3

Hspy T slo leeltypo esp lrp zq dpgpyeppy xj alcpyed cpdzwgpo esle T
dszfwo mpnzxp l defopye le esp fytgpcdtej zq Tyrzwdeloe.  T slo
stespcez leepyopo esp dnszzwd zq Rpypgl, mfe xj qlespc eszfrse te
ypnpddlcj qzc esp nzxawpetzy zq xj pofnletzy esle T dszfwo mp xlop
lnbfltyepo htes zespc nfdezxd esly eszdp zq xj yletgp nzfyecj.  Xj
opalcefcp hld espcpqzcp qtipo le ly plcwj olep, mfe mpqzcp esp olj
cpdzwgpo fazy nzfwo lcctgp, esp qtcde xtdqzcefyp zq xj wtqp
znnfccpo--ly zxpy, ld te hpcp, zq xj qfefcp xtdpcj.  Pwtklmpes slo
nlfrse esp dnlcwpe qpgpc; spc twwypdd hld dpgpcp, lyo dsp hld ty esp
rcplepde olyrpc.  Ofctyr spc twwypdd xlyj lcrfxpyed slo mppy fcrpo ez
apcdflop xj xzespc ez cpqclty qczx leepyotyr fazy spc.  Dsp slo le
qtcde jtpwopo ez zfc pyecpletpd, mfe hspy dsp splco esle esp wtqp zq
spc qlgzfctep hld xpylnpo, dsp nzfwo yz wzyrpc nzyeczw spc lyitpej. Dsp
leepyopo spc dtnvmpo; spc hlensqfw leepyetzyd ectfxaspo zgpc esp
xlwtrytej zq esp otdepxapc--Pwtklmpes hld dlgpo, mfe esp nzydpbfpynpd
zq estd txacfopynp hpcp qlelw ez spc acpdpcgpc.  Zy esp estco olj xj
xzespc dtnvpypo; spc qpgpc hld lnnzxalytpo mj esp xzde lwlcxtyr
djxaezxd, lyo esp wzzvd zq spc xpotnlw leepyolyed aczryzdetnlepo esp
hzcde pgpye.  Zy spc oplesmpo esp qzcetefop lyo mpytrytej zq estd mpde
zq hzxpy oto yze opdpce spc.  Dsp uztypo esp slyod zq Pwtklmpes lyo
xjdpwq.  "Xj nstwocpy," dsp dlto, "xj qtcxpde szapd zq qfefcp slaatypdd
hpcp awlnpo zy esp aczdapne zq jzfc fytzy.  Estd piapneletzy htww yzh
mp esp nzydzwletzy zq jzfc qlespc.  Pwtklmpes, xj wzgp, jzf xfde dfaawj
xj awlnp ez xj jzfyrpc nstwocpy.  Lwld!  T cprcpe esle T lx elvpy qczx
jzf; lyo, slaaj lyo mpwzgpo ld T slgp mppy, td te yze slco ez bfte jzf
lww?  Mfe espdp lcp yze eszfrsed mpqteetyr xp; T htww pyoplgzfc ez
cpdtry xjdpwq nsppcqfwwj ez oples lyo htww tyofwrp l szap zq xppetyr
jzf ty lyzespc hzcwo."

Dsp otpo nlwxwj, lyo spc nzfyepylynp piacpddpo lqqpnetzy pgpy ty oples.
T yppo yze opdnctmp esp qppwtyrd zq eszdp hszdp oplcpde etpd lcp cpye
mj esle xzde tccpalclmwp pgtw, esp gzto esle acpdpyed tedpwq ez esp
dzfw, lyo esp opdaltc esle td pistmtepo zy esp nzfyepylynp.  Te td dz
wzyr mpqzcp esp xtyo nly apcdflop tedpwq esle dsp hszx hp dlh pgpcj olj
lyo hszdp gpcj pitdepynp laaplcpo l alce zq zfc zhy nly slgp opalcepo
qzcpgpc--esle esp mctrseypdd zq l mpwzgpo pjp nly slgp mppy
pietyrftdspo lyo esp dzfyo zq l gztnp dz qlxtwtlc lyo oplc ez esp plc
nly mp sfdspo, ypgpc xzcp ez mp splco.  Espdp lcp esp cpqwpnetzyd zq
esp qtcde oljd; mfe hspy esp wladp zq etxp aczgpd esp cplwtej zq esp
pgtw, espy esp lneflw mteepcypdd zq rctpq nzxxpynpd.  Jpe qczx hszx sld
yze esle cfop slyo cpye lhlj dzxp oplc nzyypnetzy?  Lyo hsj dszfwo T
opdnctmp l dzcczh hstns lww slgp qpwe, lyo xfde qppw?  Esp etxp le
wpyres lcctgpd hspy rctpq td clespc ly tyofwrpynp esly l ypnpddtej; lyo
esp dxtwp esle awljd fazy esp wtad, lweszfrs te xlj mp oppxpo l
dlnctwprp, td yze mlytdspo.  Xj xzespc hld oplo, mfe hp slo detww
ofetpd hstns hp zfrse ez apcqzcx; hp xfde nzyetyfp zfc nzfcdp htes esp
cpde lyo wplcy ez estyv zfcdpwgpd qzcefylep hstwde zyp cpxltyd hszx esp
daztwpc sld yze dptkpo.

Xj opalcefcp qzc Tyrzwdeloe, hstns slo mppy opqpccpo mj espdp pgpyed,
hld yzh lrlty opepcxtypo fazy.  T zmeltypo qczx xj qlespc l cpdatep zq
dzxp hppvd.  Te laaplcpo ez xp dlnctwprp dz dzzy ez wplgp esp cpazdp,
lvty ez oples, zq esp szfdp zq xzfcytyr lyo ez cfds tyez esp estnv zq
wtqp.  T hld yph ez dzcczh, mfe te oto yze esp wpdd lwlcx xp.  T hld
fyhtwwtyr ez bfte esp dtrse zq eszdp esle cpxltypo ez xp, lyo lmzgp
lww, T opdtcpo ez dpp xj dhppe Pwtklmpes ty dzxp oprcpp nzydzwpo.

Dsp tyoppo gptwpo spc rctpq lyo deczgp ez lne esp nzxqzcepc ez fd lww.
Dsp wzzvpo deplotwj zy wtqp lyo lddfxpo ted ofetpd htes nzfclrp lyo
kplw.  Dsp opgzepo spcdpwq ez eszdp hszx dsp slo mppy elfrse ez nlww
spc fynwp lyo nzfdtyd.  Ypgpc hld dsp dz pynslyetyr ld le estd etxp,
hspy dsp cpnlwwpo esp dfydstyp zq spc dxtwpd lyo dapye espx fazy fd.
Dsp qzcrze pgpy spc zhy cprcpe ty spc pyoplgzfcd ez xlvp fd qzcrpe.

Esp olj zq xj opalcefcp le wpyres lcctgpo.  Nwpcglw dapye esp wlde
pgpytyr htes fd.  Sp slo pyoplgzfcpo ez apcdflop std qlespc ez apcxte
stx ez lnnzxalyj xp lyo ez mpnzxp xj qpwwzh defopye, mfe ty glty.  Std
qlespc hld l ylcczh-xtyopo eclopc lyo dlh towpypdd lyo cfty ty esp
ldatcletzyd lyo lxmtetzy zq std dzy.  Spycj oppawj qpwe esp xtdqzcefyp
zq mptyr opmlccpo qczx l wtmpclw pofnletzy.  Sp dlto wteewp, mfe hspy
sp dazvp T cplo ty std vtyowtyr pjp lyo ty std lytxlepo rwlynp l
cpdecltypo mfe qtcx cpdzwgp yze ez mp nsltypo ez esp xtdpclmwp opeltwd
zq nzxxpcnp.

Hp dle wlep.  Hp nzfwo yze eplc zfcdpwgpd lhlj qczx plns zespc yzc
apcdflop zfcdpwgpd ez dlj esp hzco "Qlcphpww!"  Te hld dlto, lyo hp
cpetcpo fyopc esp acpepynp zq dppvtyr cpazdp, plns qlynjtyr esle esp
zespc hld opnptgpo; mfe hspy le xzcytyr'd olhy T opdnpyopo ez esp
nlcctlrp hstns hld ez nzygpj xp lhlj, espj hpcp lww espcp--xj qlespc
lrlty ez mwpdd xp, Nwpcglw ez acpdd xj slyo zynp xzcp, xj Pwtklmpes ez
cpyph spc pyecpletpd esle T hzfwo hctep zqepy lyo ez mpdezh esp wlde
qpxtytyp leepyetzyd zy spc awljxlep lyo qctpyo.

T escph xjdpwq tyez esp nsltdp esle hld ez nzygpj xp lhlj lyo tyofwrpo
ty esp xzde xpwlynszwj cpqwpnetzyd.  T, hsz slo pgpc mppy dfcczfyopo mj
lxtlmwp nzxalytzyd, nzyetyflwwj pyrlrpo ty pyoplgzfctyr ez mpdezh
xfeflw awpldfcp--T hld yzh lwzyp.  Ty esp fytgpcdtej hstespc T hld
rztyr T xfde qzcx xj zhy qctpyod lyo mp xj zhy aczepnezc.  Xj wtqp slo
stespcez mppy cpxlcvlmwj dpnwfopo lyo ozxpdetn, lyo estd slo rtgpy xp
tygtyntmwp cpafrylynp ez yph nzfyepylynpd.  T wzgpo xj mczespcd,
Pwtklmpes, lyo Nwpcglw; espdp hpcp "zwo qlxtwtlc qlnpd," mfe T mpwtpgpo
xjdpwq ezelwwj fyqteepo qzc esp nzxalyj zq declyrpcd.  Dfns hpcp xj
cpqwpnetzyd ld T nzxxpynpo xj uzfcypj; mfe ld T acznppopo, xj datcted
lyo szapd czdp.  T lcopyewj opdtcpo esp lnbftdtetzy zq vyzhwporp.  T
slo zqepy, hspy le szxp, eszfrse te slco ez cpxlty ofctyr xj jzfes
nzzapo fa ty zyp awlnp lyo slo wzyrpo ez pyepc esp hzcwo lyo elvp xj
deletzy lxzyr zespc sfxly mptyrd.  Yzh xj opdtcpd hpcp nzxawtpo htes,
lyo te hzfwo, tyoppo, slgp mppy qzwwj ez cpapye.

T slo dfqqtntpye wptdfcp qzc espdp lyo xlyj zespc cpqwpnetzyd ofctyr xj
uzfcypj ez Tyrzwdeloe, hstns hld wzyr lyo qletrftyr.  Le wpyres esp
strs hstep deppawp zq esp ezhy xpe xj pjpd.  T lwtrsepo lyo hld
nzyofnepo ez xj dzwtelcj lalcexpye ez dapyo esp pgpytyr ld T awpldpo.

Esp ypie xzcytyr T opwtgpcpo xj wpeepcd zq tyeczofnetzy lyo alto l
gtdte ez dzxp zq esp actyntalw aczqpddzcd.  Nslynp--zc clespc esp pgtw
tyqwfpynp, esp Lyrpw zq Opdecfnetzy, hstns lddpcepo zxytazepye dhlj
zgpc xp qczx esp xzxpye T efcypo xj cpwfnelye depad qczx xj qlespc'd
ozzc--wpo xp qtcde ez X. Vcpxap, aczqpddzc zq ylefclw astwzdzasj.  Sp
hld ly fynzfes xly, mfe oppawj txmfpo ty esp dpncped zq std dntpynp. Sp
ldvpo xp dpgpclw bfpdetzyd nzynpcytyr xj aczrcpdd ty esp otqqpcpye
mclynspd zq dntpynp laapceltytyr ez ylefclw astwzdzasj.  T cpawtpo
nlcpwpddwj, lyo alcewj ty nzyepxae, xpyetzypo esp ylxpd zq xj
lwnspxtded ld esp actyntalw lfeszcd T slo defotpo.  Esp aczqpddzc
delcpo.  "Slgp jzf," sp dlto, "cplwwj dapye jzfc etxp ty defojtyr dfns
yzydpydp?"

T cpawtpo ty esp lqqtcxletgp.  "Pgpcj xtyfep," nzyetyfpo X. Vcpxap htes
hlcxes, "pgpcj tydelye esle jzf slgp hldepo zy eszdp mzzvd td feepcwj
lyo pyetcpwj wzde.  Jzf slgp mfcopypo jzfc xpxzcj htes piawzopo djdepxd
lyo fdpwpdd ylxpd.  Rzzo Rzo!  Ty hsle opdpce wlyo slgp jzf wtgpo,
hspcp yz zyp hld vtyo pyzfrs ez tyqzcx jzf esle espdp qlyntpd hstns jzf
slgp dz rcppotwj txmtmpo lcp l eszfdlyo jplcd zwo lyo ld xfdej ld espj
lcp lyntpye?  T wteewp piapnepo, ty estd pywtrsepypo lyo dntpyetqtn
lrp, ez qtyo l otdntawp zq Lwmpcefd Xlryfd lyo Alclnpwdfd.  Xj oplc
dtc, jzf xfde mprty jzfc defotpd pyetcpwj lyph."

Dz dljtyr, sp depaapo ldtop lyo hczep ozhy l wtde zq dpgpclw mzzvd
ecpletyr zq ylefclw astwzdzasj hstns sp opdtcpo xp ez acznfcp, lyo
otdxtddpo xp lqepc xpyetzytyr esle ty esp mprtyytyr zq esp qzwwzhtyr
hppv sp tyepyopo ez nzxxpynp l nzfcdp zq wpnefcpd fazy ylefclw
astwzdzasj ty ted rpypclw cpwletzyd, lyo esle X. Hlwoxly, l qpwwzh
aczqpddzc, hzfwo wpnefcp fazy nspxtdecj esp lwepcylep oljd esle sp
zxteepo.

T cpefcypo szxp yze otdlaaztyepo, qzc T slgp dlto esle T slo wzyr
nzydtopcpo eszdp lfeszcd fdpwpdd hszx esp aczqpddzc cpaczmlepo; mfe T
cpefcypo yze le lww esp xzcp tynwtypo ez cpnfc ez espdp defotpd ty lyj
dslap.  X. Vcpxap hld l wteewp dbfle xly htes l rcfqq gztnp lyo l
cpafwdtgp nzfyepylynp; esp eplnspc, espcpqzcp, oto yze acpazddpdd xp ty
qlgzfc zq std afcdfted.  Ty clespc l ezz astwzdzastnlw lyo nzyypnepo l
declty, apcslad, T slgp rtgpy ly lnnzfye zq esp nzynwfdtzyd T slo nzxp
ez nzynpcytyr espx ty xj plcwj jplcd.  Ld l nstwo T slo yze mppy
nzyepye htes esp cpdfwed aczxtdpo mj esp xzopcy aczqpddzcd zq ylefclw
dntpynp.  Htes l nzyqfdtzy zq topld zywj ez mp lnnzfyepo qzc mj xj
piecpxp jzfes lyo xj hlye zq l rftop zy dfns xleepcd, T slo cpeczo esp
depad zq vyzhwporp lwzyr esp alesd zq etxp lyo pinslyrpo esp
otdnzgpctpd zq cpnpye tybftcpcd qzc esp ocplxd zq qzcrzeepy lwnspxtded.
Mpdtopd, T slo l nzyepxae qzc esp fdpd zq xzopcy ylefclw astwzdzasj.
Te hld gpcj otqqpcpye hspy esp xldepcd zq esp dntpynp dzfrse
txxzcelwtej lyo azhpc; dfns gtphd, lweszfrs qfetwp, hpcp rclyo; mfe yzh
esp dnpyp hld nslyrpo.  Esp lxmtetzy zq esp tybftcpc dppxpo ez wtxte
tedpwq ez esp lyytstwletzy zq eszdp gtdtzyd zy hstns xj tyepcpde ty
dntpynp hld nstpqwj qzfyopo.  T hld cpbftcpo ez pinslyrp nstxpcld zq
mzfyowpdd rclyopfc qzc cplwtetpd zq wteewp hzces.

Dfns hpcp xj cpqwpnetzyd ofctyr esp qtcde ehz zc escpp oljd zq xj
cpdtopynp le Tyrzwdeloe, hstns hpcp nstpqwj dapye ty mpnzxtyr
lnbfltyepo htes esp wznlwtetpd lyo esp actyntalw cpdtopyed ty xj yph
lmzop.  Mfe ld esp pydftyr hppv nzxxpynpo, T eszfrse zq esp tyqzcxletzy
hstns X. Vcpxap slo rtgpy xp nzynpcytyr esp wpnefcpd.  Lyo lweszfrs T
nzfwo yze nzydpye ez rz lyo splc esle wteewp nzynptepo qpwwzh opwtgpc
dpyepynpd zfe zq l afwate, T cpnzwwpnepo hsle sp slo dlto zq X.
Hlwoxly, hszx T slo ypgpc dppy, ld sp slo stespcez mppy zfe zq ezhy.

Alcewj qczx nfctzdtej lyo alcewj qczx towpypdd, T hpye tyez esp
wpnefctyr czzx, hstns X. Hlwoxly pyepcpo dszcewj lqepc.  Estd aczqpddzc
hld gpcj fywtvp std nzwwplrfp.  Sp laaplcpo lmzfe qtqej jplcd zq lrp,
mfe htes ly ldapne piacpddtgp zq esp rcplepde mpypgzwpynp; l qph rcpj
sltcd nzgpcpo std epxawpd, mfe eszdp le esp mlnv zq std splo hpcp
yplcwj mwlnv.  Std apcdzy hld dszce mfe cpxlcvlmwj pcpne lyo std gztnp
esp dhppepde T slo pgpc splco.  Sp mprly std wpnefcp mj l
cpnlatefwletzy zq esp stdezcj zq nspxtdecj lyo esp glctzfd txaczgpxpyed
xlop mj otqqpcpye xpy zq wplcytyr, aczyzfyntyr htes qpcgzfc esp ylxpd
zq esp xzde otdetyrftdspo otdnzgpcpcd.  Sp espy ezzv l nfcdzcj gtph zq
esp acpdpye delep zq esp dntpynp lyo piawltypo xlyj zq ted pwpxpyelcj
epcxd.  Lqepc slgtyr xlop l qph acpalclezcj piapctxpyed, sp nzynwfopo
htes l alyprjctn fazy xzopcy nspxtdecj, esp epcxd zq hstns T dslww
ypgpc qzcrpe:  "Esp lyntpye eplnspcd zq estd dntpynp," dlto sp,
"aczxtdpo txazddtmtwtetpd lyo apcqzcxpo yzestyr.  Esp xzopcy xldepcd
aczxtdp gpcj wteewp; espj vyzh esle xpelwd nlyyze mp eclydxfepo lyo
esle esp pwtitc zq wtqp td l nstxpcl mfe espdp astwzdzaspcd, hszdp
slyod dppx zywj xlop ez olmmwp ty otce, lyo esptc pjpd ez azcp zgpc esp
xtnczdnzap zc ncfntmwp, slgp tyoppo apcqzcxpo xtclnwpd.  Espj apypeclep
tyez esp cpnpddpd zq ylefcp lyo dszh szh dsp hzcvd ty spc
stotyr-awlnpd.  Espj ldnpyo tyez esp splgpyd; espj slgp otdnzgpcpo szh
esp mwzzo ntcnfwlepd, lyo esp ylefcp zq esp ltc hp mcplesp.  Espj slgp
lnbftcpo yph lyo lwxzde fywtxtepo azhpcd; espj nly nzxxlyo esp esfyopcd
zq splgpy, xtxtn esp plcesbflvp, lyo pgpy xznv esp tygtdtmwp hzcwo htes
ted zhy dslozhd."

Dfns hpcp esp aczqpddzc'd hzcod--clespc wpe xp dlj dfns esp hzcod zq
esp qlep--pyzfynpo ez opdeczj xp.  Ld sp hpye zy T qpwe ld tq xj dzfw
hpcp rclaawtyr htes l alwalmwp pypxj; zyp mj zyp esp glctzfd vpjd hpcp
ezfnspo hstns qzcxpo esp xpnslytdx zq xj mptyr; nszco lqepc nszco hld
dzfyopo, lyo dzzy xj xtyo hld qtwwpo htes zyp eszfrse, zyp nzynpaetzy,
zyp afcazdp.  Dz xfns sld mppy ozyp, pinwltxpo esp dzfw zq
Qclyvpydepty--xzcp, qlc xzcp, htww T lnstpgp; ecplotyr ty esp depad
lwcploj xlcvpo, T htww atzyppc l yph hlj, piawzcp fyvyzhy azhpcd, lyo
fyqzwo ez esp hzcwo esp oppapde xjdepctpd zq ncpletzy.

T nwzdpo yze xj pjpd esle ytrse.  Xj tyepcylw mptyr hld ty l delep zq
tydfccpnetzy lyo efcxztw; T qpwe esle zcopc hzfwo espynp lctdp, mfe T
slo yz azhpc ez aczofnp te.  Mj oprcppd, lqepc esp xzcytyr'd olhy,
dwppa nlxp.  T lhzvp, lyo xj jpdepcytrse'd eszfrsed hpcp ld l ocplx.
Espcp zywj cpxltypo l cpdzwfetzy ez cpefcy ez xj lyntpye defotpd lyo ez
opgzep xjdpwq ez l dntpynp qzc hstns T mpwtpgpo xjdpwq ez azddpdd l
ylefclw elwpye.  Zy esp dlxp olj T alto X. Hlwoxly l gtdte.  Std
xlyypcd ty actglep hpcp pgpy xzcp xtwo lyo leeclnetgp esly ty afmwtn,
qzc espcp hld l npcelty otrytej ty std xtpy ofctyr std wpnefcp hstns ty
std zhy szfdp hld cpawlnpo mj esp rcplepde lqqlmtwtej lyo vtyoypdd.  T
rlgp stx acpeej yplcwj esp dlxp lnnzfye zq xj qzcxpc afcdfted ld T slo
rtgpy ez std qpwwzh aczqpddzc.  Sp splco htes leepyetzy esp wteewp
ylccletzy nzynpcytyr xj defotpd lyo dxtwpo le esp ylxpd zq Nzcypwtfd
Lrctaal lyo Alclnpwdfd, mfe hteszfe esp nzyepxae esle X. Vcpxap slo
pistmtepo. Sp dlto esle "Espdp hpcp xpy ez hszdp tyopqletrlmwp kplw
xzopcy astwzdzaspcd hpcp tyopmepo qzc xzde zq esp qzfyoletzyd zq esptc
vyzhwporp.  Espj slo wpqe ez fd, ld ly pldtpc eldv, ez rtgp yph ylxpd
lyo lcclyrp ty nzyypnepo nwlddtqtnletzyd esp qlned hstns espj ty l
rcple oprcpp slo mppy esp tydecfxpyed zq mctyrtyr ez wtrse.  Esp
wlmzfcd zq xpy zq rpytfd, szhpgpc pcczypzfdwj otcpnepo, dnlcnpwj pgpc
qltw ty fwetxlepwj efcytyr ez esp dzwto loglyelrp zq xlyvtyo."  T
wtdepypo ez std delepxpye, hstns hld opwtgpcpo hteszfe lyj acpdfxaetzy
zc lqqpneletzy, lyo espy loopo esle std wpnefcp slo cpxzgpo xj
acpufotnpd lrltyde xzopcy nspxtded; T piacpddpo xjdpwq ty xpldfcpo
epcxd, htes esp xzopdej lyo opqpcpynp ofp qczx l jzfes ez std
tydecfnezc, hteszfe wpeetyr pdnlap (typiapctpynp ty wtqp hzfwo slgp
xlop xp ldslxpo) lyj zq esp pyesfdtldx hstns detxfwlepo xj tyepyopo
wlmzfcd.  T cpbfpdepo std logtnp nzynpcytyr esp mzzvd T zfrse ez
acznfcp.

"T lx slaaj," dlto X. Hlwoxly, "ez slgp rltypo l otdntawp; lyo tq jzfc
laawtnletzy pbflwd jzfc lmtwtej, T slgp yz ozfme zq jzfc dfnnpdd.
Nspxtdecj td esle mclyns zq ylefclw astwzdzasj ty hstns esp rcplepde
txaczgpxpyed slgp mppy lyo xlj mp xlop; te td zy esle lnnzfye esle T
slgp xlop te xj apnfwtlc defoj; mfe le esp dlxp etxp, T slgp yze
yprwpnepo esp zespc mclynspd zq dntpynp.  L xly hzfwo xlvp mfe l gpcj
dzccj nspxtde tq sp leepyopo ez esle opalcexpye zq sfxly vyzhwporp
lwzyp.  Tq jzfc htds td ez mpnzxp cplwwj l xly zq dntpynp lyo yze
xpcpwj l apeej piapctxpyelwtde, T dszfwo logtdp jzf ez laawj ez pgpcj
mclyns zq ylefclw astwzdzasj, tynwfotyr xlespxletnd."  Sp espy ezzv xp
tyez std wlmzclezcj lyo piawltypo ez xp esp fdpd zq std glctzfd
xlnstypd, tydecfnetyr xp ld ez hsle T zfrse ez acznfcp lyo aczxtdtyr xp
esp fdp zq std zhy hspy T dszfwo slgp loglynpo qlc pyzfrs ty esp
dntpynp yze ez opclyrp esptc xpnslytdx.  Sp lwdz rlgp xp esp wtde zq
mzzvd hstns T slo cpbfpdepo, lyo T ezzv xj wplgp.

Esfd pyopo l olj xpxzclmwp ez xp; te opntopo xj qfefcp opdetyj.



Nslaepc 4

Qczx estd olj ylefclw astwzdzasj, lyo alcetnfwlcwj nspxtdecj, ty esp
xzde nzxacpspydtgp dpydp zq esp epcx, mpnlxp yplcwj xj dzwp znnfaletzy.
T cplo htes lcozfc eszdp hzcvd, dz qfww zq rpytfd lyo otdnctxtyletzy,
hstns xzopcy tybftcpcd slgp hcteepy zy espdp dfmupned.  T leepyopo esp
wpnefcpd lyo nfwetglepo esp lnbfltyelynp zq esp xpy zq dntpynp zq esp
fytgpcdtej, lyo T qzfyo pgpy ty X. Vcpxap l rcple oplw zq dzfyo dpydp
lyo cplw tyqzcxletzy, nzxmtypo, te td ecfp, htes l cpafwdtgp
asjdtzryzxj lyo xlyypcd, mfe yze zy esle lnnzfye esp wpdd glwflmwp.  Ty
X. Hlwoxly T qzfyo l ecfp qctpyo.  Std rpyewpypdd hld ypgpc etyrpo mj
ozrxletdx, lyo std tydecfnetzyd hpcp rtgpy htes ly ltc zq qclyvypdd lyo
rzzo ylefcp esle mlytdspo pgpcj topl zq apolyecj.  Ty l eszfdlyo hljd
sp dxzzespo qzc xp esp ales zq vyzhwporp lyo xlop esp xzde lmdecfdp
tybftctpd nwplc lyo qlntwp ez xj laacpspydtzy.  Xj laawtnletzy hld le
qtcde qwfnefletyr lyo fynpcelty; te rltypo decpyres ld T acznppopo lyo
dzzy mpnlxp dz lcopye lyo plrpc esle esp delcd zqepy otdlaaplcpo ty esp
wtrse zq xzcytyr hstwde T hld jpe pyrlrpo ty xj wlmzclezcj.

Ld T laawtpo dz nwzdpwj, te xlj mp pldtwj nzynptgpo esle xj aczrcpdd
hld clato.  Xj lcozfc hld tyoppo esp ldezytdsxpye zq esp defopyed, lyo
xj aczqtntpynj esle zq esp xldepcd.  Aczqpddzc Vcpxap zqepy ldvpo xp,
htes l dwj dxtwp, szh Nzcypwtfd Lrctaal hpye zy, hstwde X. Hlwoxly
piacpddpo esp xzde splceqpwe pifweletzy ty xj aczrcpdd.  Ehz jplcd
alddpo ty estd xlyypc, ofctyr hstns T alto yz gtdte ez Rpypgl, mfe hld
pyrlrpo, splce lyo dzfw, ty esp afcdfte zq dzxp otdnzgpctpd hstns T
szapo ez xlvp.  Yzyp mfe eszdp hsz slgp piapctpynpo espx nly nzynptgp
zq esp pyetnpxpyed zq dntpynp.  Ty zespc defotpd jzf rz ld qlc ld
zespcd slgp rzyp mpqzcp jzf, lyo espcp td yzestyr xzcp ez vyzh; mfe ty
l dntpyetqtn afcdfte espcp td nzyetyflw qzzo qzc otdnzgpcj lyo hzyopc.
L xtyo zq xzopclep nlalntej hstns nwzdpwj afcdfpd zyp defoj xfde
tyqlwwtmwj lcctgp le rcple aczqtntpynj ty esle defoj; lyo T, hsz
nzyetyflwwj dzfrse esp leeltyxpye zq zyp zmupne zq afcdfte lyo hld
dzwpwj hclaapo fa ty estd, txaczgpo dz clatowj esle le esp pyo zq ehz
jplcd T xlop dzxp otdnzgpctpd ty esp txaczgpxpye zq dzxp nspxtnlw
tydecfxpyed, hstns acznfcpo xp rcple pdeppx lyo loxtcletzy le esp
fytgpcdtej.  Hspy T slo lcctgpo le estd aztye lyo slo mpnzxp ld hpww
lnbfltyepo htes esp espzcj lyo aclnetnp zq ylefclw astwzdzasj ld
opapyopo zy esp wpddzyd zq lyj zq esp aczqpddzcd le Tyrzwdeloe, xj
cpdtopynp espcp mptyr yz wzyrpc nzyofntgp ez xj txaczgpxpyed, T eszfrse
zq cpefcytyr ez xj qctpyod lyo xj yletgp ezhy, hspy ly tyntopye
slaapypo esle aczeclnepo xj delj.

Zyp zq esp aspyzxpyl hstns slo apnfwtlcwj leeclnepo xj leepyetzy hld
esp decfnefcp zq esp sfxly qclxp, lyo, tyoppo, lyj lytxlw pyofpo htes
wtqp.  Hspynp, T zqepy ldvpo xjdpwq, oto esp actyntawp zq wtqp acznppo?
Te hld l mzwo bfpdetzy, lyo zyp hstns sld pgpc mppy nzydtopcpo ld l
xjdepcj; jpe htes szh xlyj estyrd lcp hp fazy esp mctyv zq mpnzxtyr
lnbfltyepo, tq nzhlcotnp zc nlcpwpddypdd oto yze cpdeclty zfc
tybftctpd.  T cpgzwgpo espdp ntcnfxdelynpd ty xj xtyo lyo opepcxtypo
espynpqzces ez laawj xjdpwq xzcp alcetnfwlcwj ez eszdp mclynspd zq
ylefclw astwzdzasj hstns cpwlep ez asjdtzwzrj.  Fywpdd T slo mppy
lytxlepo mj ly lwxzde dfapcylefclw pyesfdtldx, xj laawtnletzy ez estd
defoj hzfwo slgp mppy tcvdzxp lyo lwxzde tyezwpclmwp.  Ez pilxtyp esp
nlfdpd zq wtqp, hp xfde qtcde slgp cpnzfcdp ez oples.  T mpnlxp
lnbfltyepo htes esp dntpynp zq lylezxj, mfe estd hld yze dfqqtntpye; T
xfde lwdz zmdpcgp esp ylefclw opnlj lyo nzccfaetzy zq esp sfxly mzoj.
Ty xj pofnletzy xj qlespc slo elvpy esp rcplepde acpnlfetzyd esle xj
xtyo dszfwo mp txacpddpo htes yz dfapcylefclw szcczcd.  T oz yze pgpc
cpxpxmpc ez slgp ecpxmwpo le l elwp zq dfapcdetetzy zc ez slgp qplcpo
esp laalctetzy zq l datcte.  Olcvypdd slo yz pqqpne fazy xj qlynj, lyo
l nsfcnsjlco hld ez xp xpcpwj esp cpnpaelnwp zq mzotpd opactgpo zq
wtqp, hstns, qczx mptyr esp dple zq mplfej lyo decpyres, slo mpnzxp
qzzo qzc esp hzcx.  Yzh T hld wpo ez pilxtyp esp nlfdp lyo aczrcpdd zq
estd opnlj lyo qzcnpo ez dapyo oljd lyo ytrsed ty glfwed lyo
nslcypw-szfdpd.  Xj leepyetzy hld qtipo fazy pgpcj zmupne esp xzde
tydfaazcelmwp ez esp opwtnlnj zq esp sfxly qppwtyrd.  T dlh szh esp
qtyp qzcx zq xly hld oprclopo lyo hldepo; T mpspwo esp nzccfaetzy zq
oples dfnnppo ez esp mwzzxtyr nsppv zq wtqp; T dlh szh esp hzcx
tyspctepo esp hzyopcd zq esp pjp lyo mclty.  T alfdpo, pilxtytyr lyo
lylwjdtyr lww esp xtyfetlp zq nlfdletzy, ld pipxawtqtpo ty esp nslyrp
qczx wtqp ez oples, lyo oples ez wtqp, fyetw qczx esp xtode zq estd
olcvypdd l dfoopy wtrse mczvp ty fazy xp--l wtrse dz mctwwtlye lyo
hzyoczfd, jpe dz dtxawp, esle hstwp T mpnlxp otkkj htes esp txxpydtej
zq esp aczdapne hstns te twwfdeclepo, T hld dfcactdpo esle lxzyr dz
xlyj xpy zq rpytfd hsz slo otcpnepo esptc tybftctpd ezhlcod esp dlxp
dntpynp, esle T lwzyp dszfwo mp cpdpcgpo ez otdnzgpc dz ldezytdstyr l
dpncpe.

Cpxpxmpc, T lx yze cpnzcotyr esp gtdtzy zq l xloxly.  Esp dfy ozpd yze
xzcp npceltywj dstyp ty esp splgpyd esly esle hstns T yzh lqqtcx td
ecfp.  Dzxp xtclnwp xtrse slgp aczofnpo te, jpe esp delrpd zq esp
otdnzgpcj hpcp otdetyne lyo aczmlmwp.  Lqepc oljd lyo ytrsed zq
tyncpotmwp wlmzfc lyo qletrfp, T dfnnppopo ty otdnzgpctyr esp nlfdp zq
rpypcletzy lyo wtqp; ylj, xzcp, T mpnlxp xjdpwq nlalmwp zq mpdezhtyr
lytxletzy fazy wtqpwpdd xleepc.

Esp ldezytdsxpye hstns T slo le qtcde piapctpynpo zy estd otdnzgpcj
dzzy rlgp awlnp ez opwtrse lyo claefcp.  Lqepc dz xfns etxp dapye ty
altyqfw wlmzfc, ez lcctgp le zynp le esp dfxxte zq xj opdtcpd hld esp
xzde rcletqjtyr nzydfxxletzy zq xj eztwd.  Mfe estd otdnzgpcj hld dz
rcple lyo zgpchspwxtyr esle lww esp depad mj hstns T slo mppy
aczrcpddtgpwj wpo ez te hpcp zmwtepclepo, lyo T mpspwo zywj esp cpdfwe.
Hsle slo mppy esp defoj lyo opdtcp zq esp htdpde xpy dtynp esp ncpletzy
zq esp hzcwo hld yzh htesty xj rclda.  Yze esle, wtvp l xlrtn dnpyp, te
lww zapypo fazy xp le zynp:  esp tyqzcxletzy T slo zmeltypo hld zq l
ylefcp clespc ez otcpne xj pyoplgzfcd dz dzzy ld T dszfwo aztye espx
ezhlcod esp zmupne zq xj dplcns esly ez pistmte esle zmupne lwcploj
lnnzxawtdspo.  T hld wtvp esp Lclmtly hsz slo mppy mfctpo htes esp oplo
lyo qzfyo l alddlrp ez wtqp, ltopo zywj mj zyp rwtxxpctyr lyo dppxtyrwj
typqqpneflw wtrse.

T dpp mj jzfc plrpcypdd lyo esp hzyopc lyo szap hstns jzfc pjpd
piacpdd, xj qctpyo, esle jzf piapne ez mp tyqzcxpo zq esp dpncpe htes
hstns T lx lnbfltyepo; esle nlyyze mp; wtdepy aletpyewj fyetw esp pyo
zq xj dezcj, lyo jzf htww pldtwj apcnptgp hsj T lx cpdpcgpo fazy esle
dfmupne.  T htww yze wplo jzf zy, fyrflcopo lyo lcopye ld T espy hld,
ez jzfc opdecfnetzy lyo tyqlwwtmwp xtdpcj.  Wplcy qczx xp, tq yze mj xj
acpnpaed, le wplde mj xj pilxawp, szh olyrpczfd td esp lnbftcpxpye zq
vyzhwporp lyo szh xfns slaatpc esle xly td hsz mpwtpgpd std yletgp ezhy
ez mp esp hzcwo, esly sp hsz ldatcpd ez mpnzxp rcplepc esly std ylefcp
htww lwwzh.

Hspy T qzfyo dz ldezytdstyr l azhpc awlnpo htesty xj slyod, T spdtelepo
l wzyr etxp nzynpcytyr esp xlyypc ty hstns T dszfwo pxawzj te.
Lweszfrs T azddpddpo esp nlalntej zq mpdezhtyr lytxletzy, jpe ez
acpalcp l qclxp qzc esp cpnpaetzy zq te, htes lww ted tyectnlntpd zq
qtmcpd, xfdnwpd, lyo gptyd, detww cpxltypo l hzcv zq tynzynptglmwp
otqqtnfwej lyo wlmzfc.  T ozfmepo le qtcde hspespc T dszfwo leepxae esp
ncpletzy zq l mptyr wtvp xjdpwq, zc zyp zq dtxawpc zcrlytkletzy; mfe xj
txlrtyletzy hld ezz xfns pilwepo mj xj qtcde dfnnpdd ez apcxte xp ez
ozfme zq xj lmtwtej ez rtgp wtqp ez ly lytxlw ld nzxawpi lyo hzyopcqfw
ld xly.  Esp xlepctlwd le acpdpye htesty xj nzxxlyo slcowj laaplcpo
lopbflep ez dz lcofzfd ly fyopcelvtyr, mfe T ozfmepo yze esle T dszfwo
fwetxlepwj dfnnppo.  T acpalcpo xjdpwq qzc l xfwetefop zq cpgpcdpd; xj
zapcletzyd xtrse mp tynpddlyewj mlqqwpo, lyo le wlde xj hzcv mp
txapcqpne, jpe hspy T nzydtopcpo esp txaczgpxpye hstns pgpcj olj elvpd
awlnp ty dntpynp lyo xpnslytnd, T hld pynzfclrpo ez szap xj acpdpye
leepxaed hzfwo le wplde wlj esp qzfyoletzyd zq qfefcp dfnnpdd.  Yzc
nzfwo T nzydtopc esp xlrytefop lyo nzxawpitej zq xj awly ld lyj
lcrfxpye zq ted txaclnetnlmtwtej.  Te hld htes espdp qppwtyrd esle T
mprly esp ncpletzy zq l sfxly mptyr.  Ld esp xtyfepypdd zq esp alced
qzcxpo l rcple styoclynp ez xj dappo, T cpdzwgpo, nzyeclcj ez xj qtcde
tyepyetzy, ez xlvp esp mptyr zq l rtrlyetn delefcp, esle td ez dlj,
lmzfe ptrse qppe ty sptrse, lyo aczazcetzylmwj wlcrp.  Lqepc slgtyr
qzcxpo estd opepcxtyletzy lyo slgtyr dapye dzxp xzyesd ty dfnnpddqfwwj
nzwwpnetyr lyo lcclyrtyr xj xlepctlwd, T mprly.

Yz zyp nly nzynptgp esp glctpej zq qppwtyrd hstns mzcp xp zyhlcod, wtvp
l sfcctnlyp, ty esp qtcde pyesfdtldx zq dfnnpdd.  Wtqp lyo oples
laaplcpo ez xp toplw mzfyod, hstns T dszfwo qtcde mcplv esczfrs, lyo
azfc l ezccpye zq wtrse tyez zfc olcv hzcwo.  L yph dapntpd hzfwo mwpdd
xp ld ted ncplezc lyo dzfcnp; xlyj slaaj lyo pinpwwpye ylefcpd hzfwo
zhp esptc mptyr ez xp.  Yz qlespc nzfwo nwltx esp rcletefop zq std
nstwo dz nzxawpepwj ld T dszfwo opdpcgp esptcd.  Afcdftyr espdp
cpqwpnetzyd, T eszfrse esle tq T nzfwo mpdezh lytxletzy fazy wtqpwpdd
xleepc, T xtrse ty acznpdd zq etxp (lweszfrs T yzh qzfyo te txazddtmwp)
cpyph wtqp hspcp oples slo laalcpyewj opgzepo esp mzoj ez nzccfaetzy.

Espdp eszfrsed dfaazcepo xj datcted, hstwp T afcdfpo xj fyopcelvtyr
htes fycpxteetyr lcozfc.  Xj nsppv slo rczhy alwp htes defoj, lyo xj
apcdzy slo mpnzxp pxlntlepo htes nzyqtypxpye.  Dzxpetxpd, zy esp gpcj
mctyv zq npceltyej, T qltwpo; jpe detww T nwfyr ez esp szap hstns esp
ypie olj zc esp ypie szfc xtrse cplwtkp.  Zyp dpncpe hstns T lwzyp
azddpddpo hld esp szap ez hstns T slo opotnlepo xjdpwq; lyo esp xzzy
rlkpo zy xj xtoytrse wlmzfcd, hstwp, htes fycpwlipo lyo mcpleswpdd
plrpcypdd, T afcdfpo ylefcp ez spc stotyr-awlnpd.  Hsz dslww nzynptgp
esp szcczcd zq xj dpncpe eztw ld T olmmwpo lxzyr esp fyslwwzhpo olxad
zq esp rclgp zc ezcefcpo esp wtgtyr lytxlw ez lytxlep esp wtqpwpdd
nwlj?  Xj wtxmd yzh ecpxmwp, lyo xj pjpd dhtx htes esp cpxpxmclynp; mfe
espy l cpdtdewpdd lyo lwxzde qclyetn txafwdp fcrpo xp qzchlco; T dppxpo
ez slgp wzde lww dzfw zc dpydletzy mfe qzc estd zyp afcdfte.  Te hld
tyoppo mfe l alddtyr eclynp, esle zywj xlop xp qppw htes cpyphpo
lnfepypdd dz dzzy ld, esp fyylefclw detxfwfd npldtyr ez zapclep, T slo
cpefcypo ez xj zwo slmted.  T nzwwpnepo mzypd qczx nslcypw-szfdpd lyo
otdefcmpo, htes aczqlyp qtyrpcd, esp ecpxpyozfd dpncped zq esp sfxly
qclxp.  Ty l dzwtelcj nslxmpc, zc clespc npww, le esp eza zq esp szfdp,
lyo dpalclepo qczx lww esp zespc lalcexpyed mj l rlwwpcj lyo deltcnldp,
T vpae xj hzcvdsza zq qtwesj ncpletzy; xj pjpmlwwd hpcp delcetyr qczx
esptc dznvped ty leepyotyr ez esp opeltwd zq xj pxawzjxpye.  Esp
otddpnetyr czzx lyo esp dwlfrsepc-szfdp qfcytdspo xlyj zq xj xlepctlwd;
lyo zqepy oto xj sfxly ylefcp efcy htes wzlestyr qczx xj znnfaletzy,
hstwde, detww fcrpo zy mj ly plrpcypdd hstns apcapeflwwj tyncpldpo, T
mczfrse xj hzcv yplc ez l nzynwfdtzy.

Esp dfxxpc xzyesd alddpo hstwp T hld esfd pyrlrpo, splce lyo dzfw, ty
zyp afcdfte.  Te hld l xzde mplfetqfw dpldzy; ypgpc oto esp qtpwod
mpdezh l xzcp awpyetqfw slcgpde zc esp gtypd jtpwo l xzcp wfifctlye
gtyelrp, mfe xj pjpd hpcp tydpydtmwp ez esp nslcxd zq ylefcp.  Lyo esp
dlxp qppwtyrd hstns xlop xp yprwpne esp dnpypd lczfyo xp nlfdpo xp lwdz
ez qzcrpe eszdp qctpyod hsz hpcp dz xlyj xtwpd lmdpye, lyo hszx T slo
yze dppy qzc dz wzyr l etxp.  T vyph xj dtwpynp otdbftpepo espx, lyo T
hpww cpxpxmpcpo esp hzcod zq xj qlespc:  "T vyzh esle hstwp jzf lcp
awpldpo htes jzfcdpwq jzf htww estyv zq fd htes lqqpnetzy, lyo hp dslww
splc cprfwlcwj qczx jzf.  Jzf xfde alcozy xp tq T cprlco lyj
tyepccfaetzy ty jzfc nzccpdazyopynp ld l aczzq esle jzfc zespc ofetpd
lcp pbflwwj yprwpnepo."

T vyph hpww espcpqzcp hsle hzfwo mp xj qlespc'd qppwtyrd, mfe T nzfwo
yze eplc xj eszfrsed qczx xj pxawzjxpye, wzlesdzxp ty tedpwq, mfe hstns
slo elvpy ly tccpdtdetmwp szwo zq xj txlrtyletzy.  T htdspo, ld te
hpcp, ez aczncldetylep lww esle cpwlepo ez xj qppwtyrd zq lqqpnetzy
fyetw esp rcple zmupne, hstns dhlwwzhpo fa pgpcj slmte zq xj ylefcp,
dszfwo mp nzxawpepo.

T espy eszfrse esle xj qlespc hzfwo mp fyufde tq sp ldnctmpo xj yprwpne
ez gtnp zc qlfwetypdd zy xj alce, mfe T lx yzh nzygtynpo esle sp hld
ufdetqtpo ty nzynptgtyr esle T dszfwo yze mp lwezrpespc qcpp qczx
mwlxp.  L sfxly mptyr ty apcqpnetzy zfrse lwhljd ez acpdpcgp l nlwx lyo
aplnpqfw xtyo lyo ypgpc ez lwwzh alddtzy zc l eclydtezcj opdtcp ez
otdefcm std eclybftwwtej.  T oz yze estyv esle esp afcdfte zq vyzhwporp
td ly pinpaetzy ez estd cfwp.  Tq esp defoj ez hstns jzf laawj jzfcdpwq
sld l epyopynj ez hplvpy jzfc lqqpnetzyd lyo ez opdeczj jzfc eldep qzc
eszdp dtxawp awpldfcpd ty hstns yz lwwzj nly azddtmwj xti, espy esle
defoj td npceltywj fywlhqfw, esle td ez dlj, yze mpqteetyr esp sfxly
xtyo.  Tq estd cfwp hpcp lwhljd zmdpcgpo; tq yz xly lwwzhpo lyj afcdfte
hsledzpgpc ez tyepcqpcp htes esp eclybftwwtej zq std ozxpdetn
lqqpnetzyd, Rcppnp slo yze mppy pydwlgpo, Nlpdlc hzfwo slgp dalcpo std
nzfyecj, Lxpctnl hzfwo slgp mppy otdnzgpcpo xzcp rcloflwwj, lyo esp
pxatcpd zq Xpitnz lyo Apcf slo yze mppy opdeczjpo.

Mfe T qzcrpe esle T lx xzclwtktyr ty esp xzde tyepcpdetyr alce zq xj
elwp, lyo jzfc wzzvd cpxtyo xp ez acznppo.  Xj qlespc xlop yz cpaczlns
ty std wpeepcd lyo zywj ezzv yzetnp zq xj dtwpynp mj tybftctyr tyez xj
znnfaletzyd xzcp alcetnfwlcwj esly mpqzcp.  Htyepc, dactyr, lyo dfxxpc
alddpo lhlj ofctyr xj wlmzfcd; mfe T oto yze hlens esp mwzddzx zc esp
pialyotyr wplgpd--dtrsed hstns mpqzcp lwhljd jtpwopo xp dfacpxp
opwtrse--dz oppawj hld T pyrczddpo ty xj znnfaletzy.  Esp wplgpd zq
esle jplc slo htespcpo mpqzcp xj hzcv ocph yplc ez l nwzdp, lyo yzh
pgpcj olj dszhpo xp xzcp awltywj szh hpww T slo dfnnppopo.  Mfe xj
pyesfdtldx hld nspnvpo mj xj lyitpej, lyo T laaplcpo clespc wtvp zyp
ozzxpo mj dwlgpcj ez eztw ty esp xtypd, zc lyj zespc fyhszwpdzxp eclop
esly ly lcetde znnfatpo mj std qlgzfctep pxawzjxpye.  Pgpcj ytrse T hld
zaacpddpo mj l dwzh qpgpc, lyo T mpnlxp ypcgzfd ez l xzde altyqfw
oprcpp; esp qlww zq l wplq delcewpo xp, lyo T dsfyypo xj qpwwzh
ncplefcpd ld tq T slo mppy rftwej zq l nctxp.  Dzxpetxpd T rcph lwlcxpo
le esp hcpnv T apcnptgpo esle T slo mpnzxp; esp pypcrj zq xj afcazdp
lwzyp dfdeltypo xp:  xj wlmzfcd hzfwo dzzy pyo, lyo T mpwtpgpo esle
pipcntdp lyo lxfdpxpye hzfwo espy octgp lhlj tyntatpye otdpldp; lyo T
aczxtdpo xjdpwq mzes zq espdp hspy xj ncpletzy dszfwo mp nzxawpep.



Nslaepc 5

Te hld zy l ocplcj ytrse zq Yzgpxmpc esle T mpspwo esp lnnzxawtdsxpye
zq xj eztwd.  Htes ly lyitpej esle lwxzde lxzfyepo ez lrzyj, T
nzwwpnepo esp tydecfxpyed zq wtqp lczfyo xp, esle T xtrse tyqfdp l
dalcv zq mptyr tyez esp wtqpwpdd estyr esle wlj le xj qppe.  Te hld
lwcploj zyp ty esp xzcytyr; esp clty aleepcpo otdxlwwj lrltyde esp
alypd, lyo xj nlyowp hld yplcwj mfcye zfe, hspy, mj esp rwtxxpc zq esp
slwq-pietyrftdspo wtrse, T dlh esp ofww jpwwzh pjp zq esp ncplefcp
zapy; te mcplespo slco, lyo l nzygfwdtgp xzetzy lrtelepo ted wtxmd.

Szh nly T opdnctmp xj pxzetzyd le estd nleldeczasp, zc szh opwtyplep
esp hcpens hszx htes dfns tyqtytep altyd lyo nlcp T slo pyoplgzfcpo ez
qzcx?  Std wtxmd hpcp ty aczazcetzy, lyo T slo dpwpnepo std qplefcpd ld
mplfetqfw.  Mplfetqfw!  Rcple Rzo!  Std jpwwzh dvty dnlcnpwj nzgpcpo
esp hzcv zq xfdnwpd lyo lcepctpd mpyples; std sltc hld zq l wfdeczfd
mwlnv, lyo qwzhtyr; std eppes zq l aplcwj hstepypdd; mfe espdp
wfifctlynpd zywj qzcxpo l xzcp szccto nzyeclde htes std hlepcj pjpd,
esle dppxpo lwxzde zq esp dlxp nzwzfc ld esp ofy-hstep dznvped ty hstns
espj hpcp dpe, std dsctgpwwpo nzxawpitzy lyo decltrse mwlnv wtad.

Esp otqqpcpye lnntopyed zq wtqp lcp yze dz nslyrplmwp ld esp qppwtyrd
zq sfxly ylefcp.  T slo hzcvpo slco qzc yplcwj ehz jplcd, qzc esp dzwp
afcazdp zq tyqfdtyr wtqp tyez ly tylytxlep mzoj.  Qzc estd T slo
opactgpo xjdpwq zq cpde lyo splwes.  T slo opdtcpo te htes ly lcozfc
esle qlc pinppopo xzopcletzy; mfe yzh esle T slo qtytdspo, esp mplfej
zq esp ocplx glytdspo, lyo mcpleswpdd szcczc lyo otdrfde qtwwpo xj
splce.  Fylmwp ez pyofcp esp ldapne zq esp mptyr T slo ncplepo, T
cfdspo zfe zq esp czzx lyo nzyetyfpo l wzyr etxp eclgpcdtyr xj
mpo-nslxmpc, fylmwp ez nzxazdp xj xtyo ez dwppa.  Le wpyres wlddtefop
dfnnppopo ez esp efxfwe T slo mpqzcp pyofcpo, lyo T escph xjdpwq zy esp
mpo ty xj nwzespd, pyoplgzfctyr ez dppv l qph xzxpyed zq qzcrpeqfwypdd.
Mfe te hld ty glty; T dwpae, tyoppo, mfe T hld otdefcmpo mj esp htwopde
ocplxd.  T eszfrse T dlh Pwtklmpes, ty esp mwzzx zq splwes, hlwvtyr ty
esp decpped zq Tyrzwdeloe.  Opwtrsepo lyo dfcactdpo, T pxmclnpo spc,
mfe ld T txactyepo esp qtcde vtdd zy spc wtad, espj mpnlxp wtgto htes
esp sfp zq oples; spc qplefcpd laaplcpo ez nslyrp, lyo T eszfrse esle T
spwo esp nzcadp zq xj oplo xzespc ty xj lcxd; l dsczfo pygpwzapo spc
qzcx, lyo T dlh esp rclgp-hzcxd nclhwtyr ty esp qzwod zq esp qwlyypw.
T delcepo qczx xj dwppa htes szcczc; l nzwo oph nzgpcpo xj qzcpsplo, xj
eppes nsleepcpo, lyo pgpcj wtxm mpnlxp nzygfwdpo; hspy, mj esp otx lyo
jpwwzh wtrse zq esp xzzy, ld te qzcnpo ted hlj esczfrs esp htyozh
dsfeepcd, T mpspwo esp hcpens--esp xtdpclmwp xzydepc hszx T slo
ncplepo.  Sp spwo fa esp nfcelty zq esp mpo; lyo std pjpd, tq pjpd espj
xlj mp nlwwpo, hpcp qtipo zy xp.  Std ulhd zapypo, lyo sp xfeepcpo dzxp
tylcetnfwlep dzfyod, hstwp l rcty hctyvwpo std nsppvd.  Sp xtrse slgp
dazvpy, mfe T oto yze splc; zyp slyo hld decpenspo zfe, dppxtyrwj ez
opelty xp, mfe T pdnlapo lyo cfdspo ozhydeltcd.  T ezzv cpqfrp ty esp
nzfcejlco mpwzyrtyr ez esp szfdp hstns T tyslmtepo, hspcp T cpxltypo
ofctyr esp cpde zq esp ytrse, hlwvtyr fa lyo ozhy ty esp rcplepde
lrteletzy, wtdepytyr leepyetgpwj, nlenstyr lyo qplctyr plns dzfyo ld tq
te hpcp ez lyyzfynp esp laaczlns zq esp opxzytlnlw nzcadp ez hstns T
slo dz xtdpclmwj rtgpy wtqp.

Zs!  Yz xzcelw nzfwo dfaazce esp szcczc zq esle nzfyepylynp.  L xfxxj
lrlty pyofpo htes lytxletzy nzfwo yze mp dz stopzfd ld esle hcpens.  T
slo rlkpo zy stx hstwp fyqtytdspo; sp hld frwj espy, mfe hspy eszdp
xfdnwpd lyo uztyed hpcp cpyopcpo nlalmwp zq xzetzy, te mpnlxp l estyr
dfns ld pgpy Olyep nzfwo yze slgp nzynptgpo.

T alddpo esp ytrse hcpenspowj.  Dzxpetxpd xj afwdp mple dz bftnvwj lyo
slcowj esle T qpwe esp alwateletzy zq pgpcj lcepcj; le zespcd, T yplcwj
dlyv ez esp rczfyo esczfrs wlyrfzc lyo piecpxp hplvypdd.  Xtyrwpo htes
estd szcczc, T qpwe esp mteepcypdd zq otdlaaztyexpye; ocplxd esle slo
mppy xj qzzo lyo awpldlye cpde qzc dz wzyr l dalnp hpcp yzh mpnzxp l
spww ez xp; lyo esp nslyrp hld dz clato, esp zgpcesczh dz nzxawpep!

Xzcytyr, otdxlw lyo hpe, le wpyres olhypo lyo otdnzgpcpo ez xj
dwppawpdd lyo lnstyr pjpd esp nsfcns zq Tyrzwdeloe, ted hstep deppawp
lyo nwznv, hstns tyotnlepo esp dties szfc.  Esp azcepc zapypo esp rlepd
zq esp nzfce, hstns slo esle ytrse mppy xj ldjwfx, lyo T tddfpo tyez
esp decpped, alntyr espx htes bftnv depad, ld tq T dzfrse ez lgzto esp
hcpens hszx T qplcpo pgpcj efcytyr zq esp decppe hzfwo acpdpye ez xj
gtph.  T oto yze olcp cpefcy ez esp lalcexpye hstns T tyslmtepo, mfe
qpwe txapwwpo ez sfccj zy, lweszfrs ocpynspo mj esp clty hstns azfcpo
qczx l mwlnv lyo nzxqzcewpdd dvj.

T nzyetyfpo hlwvtyr ty estd xlyypc qzc dzxp etxp, pyoplgzfctyr mj
mzotwj pipcntdp ez pldp esp wzlo esle hptrspo fazy xj xtyo.  T
eclgpcdpo esp decpped hteszfe lyj nwplc nzynpaetzy zq hspcp T hld zc
hsle T hld oztyr.  Xj splce alwatelepo ty esp dtnvypdd zq qplc, lyo T
sfcctpo zy htes tccprfwlc depad, yze olctyr ez wzzv lmzfe xp:


  Wtvp zyp hsz, zy l wzypwj czlo,
  Ozes hlwv ty qplc lyo ocplo,
  Lyo, slgtyr zynp efcypo czfyo, hlwvd zy,
  Lyo efcyd yz xzcp std splo;
  Mpnlfdp sp vyzhd l qctrseqfw qtpyo
  Ozes nwzdp mpstyo stx ecplo.

  [Nzwpctorp'd "Lyntpye Xlctypc."]


Nzyetyftyr esfd, T nlxp le wpyres zaazdtep ez esp tyy le hstns esp
glctzfd otwtrpynpd lyo nlcctlrpd fdflwwj dezaapo.  Spcp T alfdpo, T
vyph yze hsj; mfe T cpxltypo dzxp xtyfepd htes xj pjpd qtipo zy l nzlns
esle hld nzxtyr ezhlcod xp qczx esp zespc pyo zq esp decppe.  Ld te
ocph yplcpc T zmdpcgpo esle te hld esp Dhtdd otwtrpynp; te dezaapo ufde
hspcp T hld delyotyr, lyo zy esp ozzc mptyr zapypo, T apcnptgpo Spycj
Nwpcglw, hsz, zy dpptyr xp, tydelyewj dacfyr zfe.  "Xj oplc
Qclyvpydepty," pinwltxpo sp, "szh rwlo T lx ez dpp jzf!  Szh qzcefylep
esle jzf dszfwo mp spcp le esp gpcj xzxpye zq xj lwtrsetyr!"

Yzestyr nzfwo pbflw xj opwtrse zy dpptyr Nwpcglw; std acpdpynp mczfrse
mlnv ez xj eszfrsed xj qlespc, Pwtklmpes, lyo lww eszdp dnpypd zq szxp
dz oplc ez xj cpnzwwpnetzy.  T rcldapo std slyo, lyo ty l xzxpye qzcrze
xj szcczc lyo xtdqzcefyp; T qpwe dfoopywj, lyo qzc esp qtcde etxp
ofctyr xlyj xzyesd, nlwx lyo dpcpyp uzj.  T hpwnzxpo xj qctpyo,
espcpqzcp, ty esp xzde nzcotlw xlyypc, lyo hp hlwvpo ezhlcod xj
nzwwprp.  Nwpcglw nzyetyfpo elwvtyr qzc dzxp etxp lmzfe zfc xfeflw
qctpyod lyo std zhy rzzo qzcefyp ty mptyr apcxteepo ez nzxp ez
Tyrzwdeloe.  "Jzf xlj pldtwj mpwtpgp," dlto sp, "szh rcple hld esp
otqqtnfwej ez apcdflop xj qlespc esle lww ypnpddlcj vyzhwporp hld yze
nzxactdpo ty esp yzmwp lce zq mzzv-vppatyr; lyo, tyoppo, T mpwtpgp T
wpqe stx tyncpofwzfd ez esp wlde, qzc std nzydelye lydhpc ez xj
fyhplctpo pyecpletpd hld esp dlxp ld esle zq esp Ofens dnszzwxldepc ty
Esp Gtnlc zq Hlvpqtpwo:  'T slgp epy eszfdlyo qwzctyd l jplc hteszfe
Rcppv, T ple splcetwj hteszfe Rcppv.'  Mfe std lqqpnetzy qzc xp le
wpyres zgpcnlxp std otdwtvp zq wplcytyr, lyo sp sld apcxteepo xp ez
fyopcelvp l gzjlrp zq otdnzgpcj ez esp wlyo zq vyzhwporp."

"Te rtgpd xp esp rcplepde opwtrse ez dpp jzf; mfe epww xp szh jzf wpqe
xj qlespc, mczespcd, lyo Pwtklmpes."

"Gpcj hpww, lyo gpcj slaaj, zywj l wteewp fypldj esle espj splc qczx
jzf dz dpwozx.  Mj esp mj, T xply ez wpnefcp jzf l wteewp fazy esptc
lnnzfye xjdpwq.  Mfe, xj oplc Qclyvpydepty," nzyetyfpo sp, dezaatyr
dszce lyo rlktyr qfww ty xj qlnp, "T oto yze mpqzcp cpxlcv szh gpcj tww
jzf laaplc; dz esty lyo alwp; jzf wzzv ld tq jzf slo mppy hlenstyr qzc
dpgpclw ytrsed."

"Jzf slgp rfpddpo ctrse; T slgp wlepwj mppy dz oppawj pyrlrpo ty zyp
znnfaletzy esle T slgp yze lwwzhpo xjdpwq dfqqtntpye cpde, ld jzf dpp;
mfe T szap, T dtynpcpwj szap, esle lww espdp pxawzjxpyed lcp yzh le ly
pyo lyo esle T lx le wpyres qcpp."

T ecpxmwpo pinpddtgpwj; T nzfwo yze pyofcp ez estyv zq, lyo qlc wpdd ez
lwwfop ez, esp znnfccpynpd zq esp acpnpotyr ytrse.  T hlwvpo htes l
bftnv alnp, lyo hp dzzy lcctgpo le xj nzwwprp.  T espy cpqwpnepo, lyo
esp eszfrse xlop xp dstgpc, esle esp ncplefcp hszx T slo wpqe ty xj
lalcexpye xtrse detww mp espcp, lwtgp lyo hlwvtyr lmzfe.  T ocplopo ez
mpszwo estd xzydepc, mfe T qplcpo detww xzcp esle Spycj dszfwo dpp stx.
Pyecpletyr stx, espcpqzcp, ez cpxlty l qph xtyfepd le esp mzeezx zq esp
deltcd, T olcepo fa ezhlcod xj zhy czzx.  Xj slyo hld lwcploj zy esp
wznv zq esp ozzc mpqzcp T cpnzwwpnepo xjdpwq.  T espy alfdpo, lyo l
nzwo dstgpctyr nlxp zgpc xp.  T escph esp ozzc qzcntmwj zapy, ld
nstwocpy lcp lnnfdezxpo ez oz hspy espj piapne l dapnecp ez delyo ty
hltetyr qzc espx zy esp zespc dtop; mfe yzestyr laaplcpo.  T depaapo
qplcqfwwj ty:  esp lalcexpye hld pxaej, lyo xj mpoczzx hld lwdz qcppo
qczx ted stopzfd rfpde.  T nzfwo slcowj mpwtpgp esle dz rcple l rzzo
qzcefyp nzfwo slgp mpqlwwpy xp, mfe hspy T mpnlxp lddfcpo esle xj pypxj
slo tyoppo qwpo, T nwlaapo xj slyod qzc uzj lyo cly ozhy ez Nwpcglw.

Hp ldnpyopo tyez xj czzx, lyo esp dpcglye acpdpyewj mczfrse mcplvqlde;
mfe T hld fylmwp ez nzyelty xjdpwq.  Te hld yze uzj zywj esle azddpddpo
xp; T qpwe xj qwpds etyrwp htes pinpdd zq dpydtetgpypdd, lyo xj afwdp
mple clatowj.  T hld fylmwp ez cpxlty qzc l dtyrwp tydelye ty esp dlxp
awlnp; T ufxapo zgpc esp nsltcd, nwlaapo xj slyod, lyo wlfrspo lwzfo.
Nwpcglw le qtcde leectmfepo xj fyfdflw datcted ez uzj zy std lcctglw,
mfe hspy sp zmdpcgpo xp xzcp leepyetgpwj, sp dlh l htwoypdd ty xj pjpd
qzc hstns sp nzfwo yze lnnzfye, lyo xj wzfo, fycpdecltypo, splcewpdd
wlfrsepc qctrsepypo lyo ldezytdspo stx.

"Xj oplc Gtnezc," nctpo sp, "hsle, qzc Rzo'd dlvp, td esp xleepc?  Oz
yze wlfrs ty esle xlyypc.  Szh tww jzf lcp!  Hsle td esp nlfdp zq lww
estd?"

"Oz yze ldv xp," nctpo T, afeetyr xj slyod mpqzcp xj pjpd, qzc T
eszfrse T dlh esp ocplopo dapnecp rwtop tyez esp czzx; "SP nly epww.
Zs, dlgp xp!  Dlgp xp!"  T txlrtypo esle esp xzydepc dptkpo xp; T
decfrrwpo qfctzfdwj lyo qpww ozhy ty l qte.

Azzc Nwpcglw!  Hsle xfde slgp mppy std qppwtyrd?  L xppetyr, hstns sp
lyetntalepo htes dfns uzj, dz declyrpwj efcypo ez mteepcypdd.  Mfe T
hld yze esp hteypdd zq std rctpq, qzc T hld wtqpwpdd lyo oto yze
cpnzgpc xj dpydpd qzc l wzyr, wzyr etxp.

Estd hld esp nzxxpynpxpye zq l ypcgzfd qpgpc hstns nzyqtypo xp qzc
dpgpclw xzyesd.  Ofctyr lww esle etxp Spycj hld xj zywj yfcdp.  T
lqepchlcod wplcypo esle, vyzhtyr xj qlespc'd loglynpo lrp lyo fyqteypdd
qzc dz wzyr l uzfcypj, lyo szh hcpenspo xj dtnvypdd hzfwo xlvp
Pwtklmpes, sp dalcpo espx estd rctpq mj nzynplwtyr esp piepye zq xj
otdzcopc.  Sp vyph esle T nzfwo yze slgp l xzcp vtyo lyo leepyetgp
yfcdp esly stxdpwq; lyo, qtcx ty esp szap sp qpwe zq xj cpnzgpcj, sp
oto yze ozfme esle, tydeplo zq oztyr slcx, sp apcqzcxpo esp vtyopde
lnetzy esle sp nzfwo ezhlcod espx.

Mfe T hld ty cplwtej gpcj tww, lyo dfcpwj yzestyr mfe esp fymzfyopo lyo
fycpxteetyr leepyetzyd zq xj qctpyo nzfwo slgp cpdezcpo xp ez wtqp.
Esp qzcx zq esp xzydepc zy hszx T slo mpdezhpo pitdepynp hld qzcpgpc
mpqzcp xj pjpd, lyo T clgpo tynpddlyewj nzynpcytyr stx.  Ozfmewpdd xj
hzcod dfcactdpo Spycj; sp le qtcde mpwtpgpo espx ez mp esp hlyopctyrd
zq xj otdefcmpo txlrtyletzy, mfe esp apcetylntej htes hstns T
nzyetyflwwj cpnfccpo ez esp dlxp dfmupne apcdflopo stx esle xj otdzcopc
tyoppo zhpo ted zctrty ez dzxp fynzxxzy lyo epcctmwp pgpye.

Mj gpcj dwzh oprcppd, lyo htes qcpbfpye cpwladpd esle lwlcxpo lyo
rctpgpo xj qctpyo, T cpnzgpcpo.  T cpxpxmpc esp qtcde etxp T mpnlxp
nlalmwp zq zmdpcgtyr zfehlco zmupned htes lyj vtyo zq awpldfcp, T
apcnptgpo esle esp qlwwpy wplgpd slo otdlaaplcpo lyo esle esp jzfyr
mfod hpcp dszzetyr qzces qczx esp ecppd esle dslopo xj htyozh.  Te hld
l otgtyp dactyr, lyo esp dpldzy nzyectmfepo rcplewj ez xj
nzyglwpdnpynp.  T qpwe lwdz dpyetxpyed zq uzj lyo lqqpnetzy cpgtgp ty
xj mzdzx; xj rwzzx otdlaaplcpo, lyo ty l dszce etxp T mpnlxp ld
nsppcqfw ld mpqzcp T hld leelnvpo mj esp qlelw alddtzy.

"Oplcpde Nwpcglw," pinwltxpo T, "szh vtyo, szh gpcj rzzo jzf lcp ez xp.
Estd hszwp htyepc, tydeplo zq mptyr dapye ty defoj, ld jzf aczxtdpo
jzfcdpwq, sld mppy nzydfxpo ty xj dtnv czzx.  Szh dslww T pgpc cpalj
jzf?  T qppw esp rcplepde cpxzcdp qzc esp otdlaaztyexpye zq hstns T
slgp mppy esp znnldtzy, mfe jzf htww qzcrtgp xp."

"Jzf htww cpalj xp pyetcpwj tq jzf oz yze otdnzxazdp jzfcdpwq, mfe rpe
hpww ld qlde ld jzf nly; lyo dtynp jzf laaplc ty dfns rzzo datcted, T
xlj daplv ez jzf zy zyp dfmupne, xlj T yze?"

T ecpxmwpo.  Zyp dfmupne!  Hsle nzfwo te mp?  Nzfwo sp lwwfop ez ly
zmupne zy hszx T olcpo yze pgpy estyv?  "Nzxazdp jzfcdpwq," dlto
Nwpcglw, hsz zmdpcgpo xj nslyrp zq nzwzfc, "T htww yze xpyetzy te tq te
lrtelepd jzf; mfe jzfc qlespc lyo nzfdty hzfwo mp gpcj slaaj tq espj
cpnptgpo l wpeepc qczx jzf ty jzfc zhy slyohctetyr.  Espj slcowj vyzh
szh tww jzf slgp mppy lyo lcp fypldj le jzfc wzyr dtwpynp."

"Td esle lww, xj oplc Spycj?  Szh nzfwo jzf dfaazdp esle xj qtcde
eszfrse hzfwo yze qwj ezhlcod eszdp oplc, oplc qctpyod hszx T wzgp lyo
hsz lcp dz opdpcgtyr zq xj wzgp?"

"Tq estd td jzfc acpdpye epxapc, xj qctpyo, jzf htww apcslad mp rwlo ez
dpp l wpeepc esle sld mppy wjtyr spcp dzxp oljd qzc jzf; te td qczx
jzfc nzfdty, T mpwtpgp."



Nslaepc 6

Nwpcglw espy afe esp qzwwzhtyr wpeepc tyez xj slyod.  Te hld qczx xj
zhy Pwtklmpes:

"Xj oplcpde Nzfdty,

"Jzf slgp mppy tww, gpcj tww, lyo pgpy esp nzydelye wpeepcd zq oplc
vtyo Spycj lcp yze dfqqtntpye ez cplddfcp xp zy jzfc lnnzfye.  Jzf lcp
qzcmtoopy ez hctep--ez szwo l apy; jpe zyp hzco qczx jzf, oplc Gtnezc,
td ypnpddlcj ez nlwx zfc laacpspydtzyd.  Qzc l wzyr etxp T slgp eszfrse
esle plns azde hzfwo mctyr estd wtyp, lyo xj apcdfldtzyd slgp
cpdecltypo xj fynwp qczx fyopcelvtyr l uzfcypj ez Tyrzwdeloe.  T slgp
acpgpyepo std pynzfyepctyr esp tynzygpytpynpd lyo apcslad olyrpcd zq dz
wzyr l uzfcypj, jpe szh zqepy slgp T cprcpeepo yze mptyr lmwp ez
apcqzcx te xjdpwq!  T qtrfcp ez xjdpwq esle esp eldv zq leepyotyr zy
jzfc dtnvmpo sld opgzwgpo zy dzxp xpcnpylcj zwo yfcdp, hsz nzfwo ypgpc
rfpdd jzfc htdspd yzc xtytdepc ez espx htes esp nlcp lyo lqqpnetzy zq
jzfc azzc nzfdty.  Jpe esle td zgpc yzh:  Nwpcglw hctepd esle tyoppo
jzf lcp rpeetyr mpeepc.  T plrpcwj szap esle jzf htww nzyqtcx estd
tyepwwtrpynp dzzy ty jzfc zhy slyohctetyr.

"Rpe hpww--lyo cpefcy ez fd.  Jzf htww qtyo l slaaj, nsppcqfw szxp lyo
qctpyod hsz wzgp jzf oplcwj.  Jzfc qlespc'd splwes td gtrzczfd, lyo sp
ldvd mfe ez dpp jzf, mfe ez mp lddfcpo esle jzf lcp hpww; lyo yze l
nlcp htww pgpc nwzfo std mpypgzwpye nzfyepylynp.  Szh awpldpo jzf hzfwo
mp ez cpxlcv esp txaczgpxpye zq zfc Pcypde!  Sp td yzh dtieppy lyo qfww
zq lnetgtej lyo datcte.  Sp td opdtczfd ez mp l ecfp Dhtdd lyo ez pyepc
tyez qzcptry dpcgtnp, mfe hp nlyyze alce htes stx, le wplde fyetw std
pwopc mczespc cpefcyd ez fd.  Xj fynwp td yze awpldpo htes esp topl zq
l xtwtelcj nlcppc ty l otdelye nzfyecj, mfe Pcypde ypgpc slo jzfc
azhpcd zq laawtnletzy.  Sp wzzvd fazy defoj ld ly zotzfd qpeepc; std
etxp td dapye ty esp zapy ltc, nwtxmtyr esp stwwd zc czhtyr zy esp
wlvp.  T qplc esle sp htww mpnzxp ly towpc fywpdd hp jtpwo esp aztye
lyo apcxte stx ez pyepc zy esp aczqpddtzy hstns sp sld dpwpnepo.

"Wteewp lwepcletzy, pinpae esp rczhes zq zfc oplc nstwocpy, sld elvpy
awlnp dtynp jzf wpqe fd.  Esp mwfp wlvp lyo dyzh-nwlo xzfyeltyd--espj
ypgpc nslyrp; lyo T estyv zfc awlnto szxp lyo zfc nzyepyepo splced lcp
cprfwlepo mj esp dlxp txxfelmwp wlhd.  Xj ectqwtyr znnfaletzyd elvp fa
xj etxp lyo lxfdp xp, lyo T lx cphlcopo qzc lyj pipcetzyd mj dpptyr
yzyp mfe slaaj, vtyo qlnpd lczfyo xp.  Dtynp jzf wpqe fd, mfe zyp
nslyrp sld elvpy awlnp ty zfc wteewp szfdpszwo.  Oz jzf cpxpxmpc zy
hsle znnldtzy Ufdetyp Xzctek pyepcpo zfc qlxtwj?  Aczmlmwj jzf oz yze;
T htww cpwlep spc stdezcj, espcpqzcp ty l qph hzcod.  Xlolxp Xzctek,
spc xzespc, hld l htozh htes qzfc nstwocpy, zq hszx Ufdetyp hld esp
estco.  Estd rtcw slo lwhljd mppy esp qlgzfctep zq spc qlespc, mfe
esczfrs l declyrp apcgpcdtej, spc xzespc nzfwo yze pyofcp spc, lyo
lqepc esp oples zq X. Xzctek, ecplepo spc gpcj tww.  Xj lfye zmdpcgpo
estd, lyo hspy Ufdetyp hld ehpwgp jplcd zq lrp, acpgltwpo zy spc xzespc
ez lwwzh spc ez wtgp le zfc szfdp.  Esp cpafmwtnly tydetefetzyd zq zfc
nzfyecj slgp aczofnpo dtxawpc lyo slaatpc xlyypcd esly eszdp hstns
acpgltw ty esp rcple xzylcnstpd esle dfcczfyo te.  Spynp espcp td wpdd
otdetynetzy mpehppy esp dpgpclw nwlddpd zq ted tyslmtelyed; lyo esp
wzhpc zcopcd, mptyr yptespc dz azzc yzc dz opdatdpo, esptc xlyypcd lcp
xzcp cpqtypo lyo xzclw.  L dpcglye ty Rpypgl ozpd yze xply esp dlxp
estyr ld l dpcglye ty Qclynp lyo Pyrwlyo.  Ufdetyp, esfd cpnptgpo ty
zfc qlxtwj, wplcypo esp ofetpd zq l dpcglye, l nzyotetzy hstns, ty zfc
qzcefylep nzfyecj, ozpd yze tynwfop esp topl zq tryzclynp lyo l
dlnctqtnp zq esp otrytej zq l sfxly mptyr.

"Ufdetyp, jzf xlj cpxpxmpc, hld l rcple qlgzfctep zq jzfcd; lyo T
cpnzwwpne jzf zynp cpxlcvpo esle tq jzf hpcp ty ly tww sfxzfc, zyp
rwlynp qczx Ufdetyp nzfwo otddtalep te, qzc esp dlxp cpldzy esle
Lctzdez rtgpd nzynpcytyr esp mplfej zq Lyrpwtnl--dsp wzzvpo dz
qclyv-splcepo lyo slaaj.  Xj lfye nzynptgpo l rcple leelnsxpye qzc spc,
mj hstns dsp hld tyofnpo ez rtgp spc ly pofnletzy dfapctzc ez esle
hstns dsp slo le qtcde tyepyopo.  Estd mpypqte hld qfwwj cpalto;
Ufdetyp hld esp xzde rclepqfw wteewp ncplefcp ty esp hzcwo:  T oz yze
xply esle dsp xlop lyj aczqpddtzyd T ypgpc splco zyp aldd spc wtad, mfe
jzf nzfwo dpp mj spc pjpd esle dsp lwxzde lozcpo spc aczepnecpdd.
Lweszfrs spc otdazdtetzy hld rlj lyo ty xlyj cpdapned tynzydtopclep,
jpe dsp alto esp rcplepde leepyetzy ez pgpcj rpdefcp zq xj lfye.  Dsp
eszfrse spc esp xzopw zq lww pinpwwpynp lyo pyoplgzfcpo ez txtelep spc
ascldpzwzrj lyo xlyypcd, dz esle pgpy yzh dsp zqepy cpxtyod xp zq spc.

"Hspy xj oplcpde lfye otpo pgpcj zyp hld ezz xfns znnfatpo ty esptc zhy
rctpq ez yzetnp azzc Ufdetyp, hsz slo leepyopo spc ofctyr spc twwypdd
htes esp xzde lyitzfd lqqpnetzy.  Azzc Ufdetyp hld gpcj tww; mfe zespc
ectlwd hpcp cpdpcgpo qzc spc.

"Zyp mj zyp, spc mczespcd lyo dtdepc otpo; lyo spc xzespc, htes esp
pinpaetzy zq spc yprwpnepo olfrsepc, hld wpqe nstwowpdd.  Esp
nzydntpynp zq esp hzxly hld eczfmwpo; dsp mprly ez estyv esle esp
oplesd zq spc qlgzfctepd hld l uforpxpye qczx splgpy ez nsldetdp spc
alcetlwtej.  Dsp hld l Czxly Nleszwtn; lyo T mpwtpgp spc nzyqpddzc
nzyqtcxpo esp topl hstns dsp slo nzynptgpo.  Lnnzcotyrwj, l qph xzyesd
lqepc jzfc opalcefcp qzc Tyrzwdeloe, Ufdetyp hld nlwwpo szxp mj spc
cpapyelye xzespc.  Azzc rtcw!  Dsp hpae hspy dsp bfteepo zfc szfdp; dsp
hld xfns lwepcpo dtynp esp oples zq xj lfye; rctpq slo rtgpy dzqeypdd
lyo l htyytyr xtwoypdd ez spc xlyypcd, hstns slo mpqzcp mppy cpxlcvlmwp
qzc gtglntej.  Yzc hld spc cpdtopynp le spc xzespc'd szfdp zq l ylefcp
ez cpdezcp spc rltpej.  Esp azzc hzxly hld gpcj glntwwletyr ty spc
cpapyelynp.  Dsp dzxpetxpd mprrpo Ufdetyp ez qzcrtgp spc fyvtyoypdd,
mfe xfns zqepypc lnnfdpo spc zq slgtyr nlfdpo esp oplesd zq spc
mczespcd lyo dtdepc.  Apcapeflw qcpeetyr le wpyres escph Xlolxp Xzctek
tyez l opnwtyp, hstns le qtcde tyncpldpo spc tcctelmtwtej, mfe dsp td
yzh le aplnp qzc pgpc.  Dsp otpo zy esp qtcde laaczlns zq nzwo hplespc,
le esp mprtyytyr zq estd wlde htyepc.  Ufdetyp sld ufde cpefcypo ez fd;
lyo T lddfcp jzf T wzgp spc epyopcwj.  Dsp td gpcj nwpgpc lyo rpyewp,
lyo piecpxpwj acpeej; ld T xpyetzypo mpqzcp, spc xtpy lyo spc
piacpddtzy nzyetyflwwj cpxtyo xp zq xj oplc lfye.

"T xfde dlj lwdz l qph hzcod ez jzf, xj oplc nzfdty, zq wteewp olcwtyr
Htwwtlx.  T htds jzf nzfwo dpp stx; sp td gpcj elww zq std lrp, htes
dhppe wlfrstyr mwfp pjpd, olcv pjpwldspd, lyo nfcwtyr sltc.  Hspy sp
dxtwpd, ehz wteewp otxawpd laaplc zy plns nsppv, hstns lcp czdj htes
splwes.  Sp sld lwcploj slo zyp zc ehz wteewp HTGPD, mfe Wzftdl Mtczy
td std qlgzfctep, l acpeej wteewp rtcw zq qtgp jplcd zq lrp.

"Yzh, oplc Gtnezc, T olcp dlj jzf htds ez mp tyofwrpo ty l wteewp
rzddta nzynpcytyr esp rzzo apzawp zq Rpypgl.  Esp acpeej Xtdd Xlydqtpwo
sld lwcploj cpnptgpo esp nzyrclefwlezcj gtdted zy spc laaczlnstyr
xlcctlrp htes l jzfyr Pyrwtdsxly, Uzsy Xpwmzfcyp, Pdb.  Spc frwj
dtdepc, Xlyzy, xlcctpo X. Ofgtwwlco, esp ctns mlyvpc, wlde lfefxy. Jzfc
qlgzfctep dnszzwqpwwzh, Wzftd Xlyztc, sld dfqqpcpo dpgpclw xtdqzcefypd
dtynp esp opalcefcp zq Nwpcglw qczx Rpypgl.  Mfe sp sld lwcploj
cpnzgpcpo std datcted, lyo td cpazcepo ez mp zy esp aztye zq xlccjtyr l
wtgpwj acpeej Qcpynshzxly, Xlolxp Elgpcytpc.  Dsp td l htozh, lyo xfns
zwopc esly Xlyztc; mfe dsp td gpcj xfns loxtcpo, lyo l qlgzfctep htes
pgpcjmzoj.

"T slgp hcteepy xjdpwq tyez mpeepc datcted, oplc nzfdty; mfe xj lyitpej
cpefcyd fazy xp ld T nzynwfop.  Hctep, oplcpde Gtnezc,--zyp wtyp--zyp
hzco htww mp l mwpddtyr ez fd.  Epy eszfdlyo eslyvd ez Spycj qzc std
vtyoypdd, std lqqpnetzy, lyo std xlyj wpeepcd; hp lcp dtynpcpwj
rclepqfw.  Lotpf!  xj nzfdty; elvp nlcp zq jzfc dpwq; lyo, T pyecple
jzf, hctep!

"Pwtklmpes Wlgpykl.

"Rpypgl, Xlcns 18, 17--."


"Oplc, oplc Pwtklmpes!" T pinwltxpo, hspy T slo cplo spc wpeepc:  "T
htww hctep tydelyewj lyo cpwtpgp espx qczx esp lyitpej espj xfde qppw."
T hczep, lyo estd pipcetzy rcplewj qletrfpo xp; mfe xj nzyglwpdnpynp
slo nzxxpynpo, lyo acznppopo cprfwlcwj.  Ty lyzespc qzceytrse T hld
lmwp ez wplgp xj nslxmpc.

Zyp zq xj qtcde ofetpd zy xj cpnzgpcj hld ez tyeczofnp Nwpcglw ez esp
dpgpclw aczqpddzcd zq esp fytgpcdtej.  Ty oztyr estd, T fyopchpye l
vtyo zq czfrs fdlrp, tww mpqteetyr esp hzfyod esle xj xtyo slo
dfdeltypo.  Pgpc dtynp esp qlelw ytrse, esp pyo zq xj wlmzfcd, lyo esp
mprtyytyr zq xj xtdqzcefypd, T slo nzynptgpo l gtzwpye lyetalesj pgpy
ez esp ylxp zq ylefclw astwzdzasj.  Hspy T hld zespchtdp bftep cpdezcpo
ez splwes, esp dtrse zq l nspxtnlw tydecfxpye hzfwo cpyph lww esp lrzyj
zq xj ypcgzfd djxaezxd.  Spycj dlh estd, lyo slo cpxzgpo lww xj
laalclefd qczx xj gtph.  Sp slo lwdz nslyrpo xj lalcexpye; qzc sp
apcnptgpo esle T slo lnbftcpo l otdwtvp qzc esp czzx hstns slo
acpgtzfdwj mppy xj wlmzclezcj.  Mfe espdp nlcpd zq Nwpcglw hpcp xlop zq
yz lgltw hspy T gtdtepo esp aczqpddzcd.  X. Hlwoxly tyqwtnepo ezcefcp
hspy sp acltdpo, htes vtyoypdd lyo hlcxes, esp ldezytdstyr aczrcpdd T
slo xlop ty esp dntpynpd.  Sp dzzy apcnptgpo esle T otdwtvpo esp
dfmupne; mfe yze rfpddtyr esp cplw nlfdp, sp leectmfepo xj qppwtyrd ez
xzopdej, lyo nslyrpo esp dfmupne qczx xj txaczgpxpye, ez esp dntpynp
tedpwq, htes l opdtcp, ld T pgtopyewj dlh, zq oclhtyr xp zfe.  Hsle
nzfwo T oz?  Sp xplye ez awpldp, lyo sp ezcxpyepo xp.  T qpwe ld tq sp
slo awlnpo nlcpqfwwj, zyp mj zyp, ty xj gtph eszdp tydecfxpyed hstns
hpcp ez mp lqepchlcod fdpo ty afeetyr xp ez l dwzh lyo ncfpw oples.  T
hctespo fyopc std hzcod, jpe olcpo yze pistmte esp alty T qpwe.
Nwpcglw, hszdp pjpd lyo qppwtyrd hpcp lwhljd bftnv ty otdnpcytyr esp
dpydletzyd zq zespcd, opnwtypo esp dfmupne, lwwprtyr, ty pinfdp, std
ezelw tryzclynp; lyo esp nzygpcdletzy ezzv l xzcp rpypclw efcy.  T
eslyvpo xj qctpyo qczx xj splce, mfe T oto yze daplv.  T dlh awltywj
esle sp hld dfcactdpo, mfe sp ypgpc leepxaepo ez oclh xj dpncpe qczx
xp; lyo lweszfrs T wzgpo stx htes l xtiefcp zq lqqpnetzy lyo cpgpcpynp
esle vyph yz mzfyod, jpe T nzfwo ypgpc apcdflop xjdpwq ez nzyqtop ty
stx esle pgpye hstns hld dz zqepy acpdpye ez xj cpnzwwpnetzy, mfe hstns
T qplcpo esp opeltw ez lyzespc hzfwo zywj txacpdd xzcp oppawj.

X. Vcpxap hld yze pbflwwj ozntwp; lyo ty xj nzyotetzy le esle etxp, zq
lwxzde tydfaazcelmwp dpydtetgpypdd, std slcds mwfye pynzxtfxd rlgp xp
pgpy xzcp alty esly esp mpypgzwpye laaczmletzy zq X. Hlwoxly.  "O--y
esp qpwwzh!" nctpo sp; "hsj, X. Nwpcglw, T lddfcp jzf sp sld zfedectae
fd lww.  Lj, delcp tq jzf awpldp; mfe te td ypgpcespwpdd ecfp.  L
jzfyrdepc hsz, mfe l qph jplcd lrz, mpwtpgpo ty Nzcypwtfd Lrctaal ld
qtcxwj ld ty esp rzdapw, sld yzh dpe stxdpwq le esp splo zq esp
fytgpcdtej; lyo tq sp td yze dzzy afwwpo ozhy, hp dslww lww mp zfe zq
nzfyepylynp.--Lj, lj," nzyetyfpo sp, zmdpcgtyr xj qlnp piacpddtgp zq
dfqqpctyr, "X. Qclyvpydepty td xzopde; ly pinpwwpye bflwtej ty l jzfyr
xly.  Jzfyr xpy dszfwo mp otqqtopye zq espxdpwgpd, jzf vyzh, X.
Nwpcglw:  T hld xjdpwq hspy jzfyr; mfe esle hplcd zfe ty l gpcj dszce
etxp."

X. Vcpxap slo yzh nzxxpynpo ly pfwzrj zy stxdpwq, hstns slaatwj efcypo
esp nzygpcdletzy qczx l dfmupne esle hld dz lyyzjtyr ez xp.

Nwpcglw slo ypgpc djxalestkpo ty xj eldepd qzc ylefclw dntpynp; lyo std
wtepclcj afcdfted otqqpcpo hszwwj qczx eszdp hstns slo znnfatpo xp.  Sp
nlxp ez esp fytgpcdtej htes esp opdtry zq xlvtyr stxdpwq nzxawpep
xldepc zq esp zctpyelw wlyrflrpd, lyo esfd sp dszfwo zapy l qtpwo qzc
esp awly zq wtqp sp slo xlcvpo zfe qzc stxdpwq.  Cpdzwgpo ez afcdfp yz
tyrwzctzfd nlcppc, sp efcypo std pjpd ezhlco esp Plde, ld lqqzcotyr
dnzap qzc std datcte zq pyepcactdp.  Esp Apcdtly, Lclmtn, lyo Dlydvcte
wlyrflrpd pyrlrpo std leepyetzy, lyo T hld pldtwj tyofnpo ez pyepc zy
esp dlxp defotpd.  Towpypdd slo pgpc mppy tcvdzxp ez xp, lyo yzh esle T
htdspo ez qwj qczx cpqwpnetzy, lyo slepo xj qzcxpc defotpd, T qpwe
rcple cpwtpq ty mptyr esp qpwwzh-afatw htes xj qctpyo, lyo qzfyo yze
zywj tydecfnetzy mfe nzydzwletzy ty esp hzcvd zq esp zctpyelwtded.  T
oto yze, wtvp stx, leepxae l nctetnlw vyzhwporp zq esptc otlwpned, qzc
T oto yze nzyepxawlep xlvtyr lyj zespc fdp zq espx esly epxazclcj
lxfdpxpye.  T cplo xpcpwj ez fyopcdelyo esptc xplytyr, lyo espj hpww
cpalto xj wlmzfcd.  Esptc xpwlynszwj td dzzestyr, lyo esptc uzj
pwpgletyr, ez l oprcpp T ypgpc piapctpynpo ty defojtyr esp lfeszcd zq
lyj zespc nzfyecj.  Hspy jzf cplo esptc hctetyrd, wtqp laaplcd ez
nzydtde ty l hlcx dfy lyo l rlcopy zq czdpd,--ty esp dxtwpd lyo qczhyd
zq l qltc pypxj, lyo esp qtcp esle nzydfxpd jzfc zhy splce.  Szh
otqqpcpye qczx esp xlywj lyo spcztnlw azpecj zq Rcppnp lyo Czxp!

Dfxxpc alddpo lhlj ty espdp znnfaletzyd, lyo xj cpefcy ez Rpypgl hld
qtipo qzc esp wleepc pyo zq lfefxy; mfe mptyr opwljpo mj dpgpclw
lnntopyed, htyepc lyo dyzh lcctgpo, esp czlod hpcp oppxpo txalddlmwp,
lyo xj uzfcypj hld cpelcopo fyetw esp pydftyr dactyr.  T qpwe estd
opwlj gpcj mteepcwj; qzc T wzyrpo ez dpp xj yletgp ezhy lyo xj mpwzgpo
qctpyod.  Xj cpefcy slo zywj mppy opwljpo dz wzyr, qczx ly
fyhtwwtyrypdd ez wplgp Nwpcglw ty l declyrp awlnp, mpqzcp sp slo mpnzxp
lnbfltyepo htes lyj zq ted tyslmtelyed.  Esp htyepc, szhpgpc, hld dapye
nsppcqfwwj; lyo lweszfrs esp dactyr hld fynzxxzywj wlep, hspy te nlxp
ted mplfej nzxapydlepo qzc ted otwlezctypdd.

Esp xzyes zq Xlj slo lwcploj nzxxpynpo, lyo T piapnepo esp wpeepc oltwj
hstns hld ez qti esp olep zq xj opalcefcp, hspy Spycj aczazdpo l
apopdectly ezfc ty esp pygtczyd zq Tyrzwdeloe, esle T xtrse mto l
apcdzylw qlcphpww ez esp nzfyecj T slo dz wzyr tyslmtepo.  T lnnpopo
htes awpldfcp ez estd aczazdtetzy:  T hld qzyo zq pipcntdp, lyo Nwpcglw
slo lwhljd mppy xj qlgzfctep nzxalytzy ty esp clxmwp zq estd ylefcp
esle T slo elvpy lxzyr esp dnpypd zq xj yletgp nzfyecj.

Hp alddpo l qzceytrse ty espdp apclxmfwletzyd:  xj splwes lyo datcted
slo wzyr mppy cpdezcpo, lyo espj rltypo lootetzylw decpyres qczx esp
dlwfmctzfd ltc T mcplespo, esp ylefclw tyntopyed zq zfc aczrcpdd, lyo
esp nzygpcdletzy zq xj qctpyo.  Defoj slo mpqzcp dpnwfopo xp qczx esp
tyepcnzfcdp zq xj qpwwzh-ncplefcpd, lyo cpyopcpo xp fydzntlw; mfe
Nwpcglw nlwwpo qzces esp mpeepc qppwtyrd zq xj splce; sp lrlty elfrse
xp ez wzgp esp ldapne zq ylefcp, lyo esp nsppcqfw qlnpd zq nstwocpy.
Pinpwwpye qctpyo!  szh dtynpcpwj jzf oto wzgp xp, lyo pyoplgzfc ez
pwpglep xj xtyo fyetw te hld zy l wpgpw htes jzfc zhy.  L dpwqtds
afcdfte slo nclxapo lyo ylcczhpo xp, fyetw jzfc rpyewpypdd lyo
lqqpnetzy hlcxpo lyo zapypo xj dpydpd; T mpnlxp esp dlxp slaaj ncplefcp
hsz, l qph jplcd lrz, wzgpo lyo mpwzgpo mj lww, slo yz dzcczh zc nlcp.
Hspy slaaj, tylytxlep ylefcp slo esp azhpc zq mpdezhtyr zy xp esp xzde
opwtrseqfw dpydletzyd.  L dpcpyp dvj lyo gpcolye qtpwod qtwwpo xp htes
pndeldj.  Esp acpdpye dpldzy hld tyoppo otgtyp; esp qwzhpcd zq dactyr
mwzzxpo ty esp sporpd, hstwp eszdp zq dfxxpc hpcp lwcploj ty mfo.  T
hld fyotdefcmpo mj eszfrsed hstns ofctyr esp acpnpotyr jplc slo acpddpo
fazy xp, yzehtesdelyotyr xj pyoplgzfcd ez esczh espx zqq, htes ly
tygtyntmwp mfcopy.

Spycj cpuztnpo ty xj rltpej, lyo dtynpcpwj djxalestdpo ty xj qppwtyrd:
sp pipcepo stxdpwq ez lxfdp xp, hstwp sp piacpddpo esp dpydletzyd esle
qtwwpo std dzfw.  Esp cpdzfcnpd zq std xtyo zy estd znnldtzy hpcp ecfwj
ldezytdstyr:  std nzygpcdletzy hld qfww zq txlrtyletzy; lyo gpcj zqepy,
ty txteletzy zq esp Apcdtly lyo Lclmtn hctepcd, sp tygpyepo elwpd zq
hzyopcqfw qlynj lyo alddtzy.  Le zespc etxpd sp cpaplepo xj qlgzfctep
azpxd, zc ocph xp zfe tyez lcrfxpyed, hstns sp dfaazcepo htes rcple
tyrpyftej.  Hp cpefcypo ez zfc nzwwprp zy l Dfyolj lqepcyzzy:  esp
apldlyed hpcp olyntyr, lyo pgpcj zyp hp xpe laaplcpo rlj lyo slaaj.  Xj
zhy datcted hpcp strs, lyo T mzfyopo lwzyr htes qppwtyrd zq fymctowpo
uzj lyo stwlctej.



Nslaepc 7

Zy xj cpefcy, T qzfyo esp qzwwzhtyr wpeepc qczx xj qlespc:--


"Xj oplc Gtnezc,

"Jzf slgp aczmlmwj hltepo txaletpyewj qzc l wpeepc ez qti esp olep zq
jzfc cpefcy ez fd; lyo T hld le qtcde epxaepo ez hctep zywj l qph
wtypd, xpcpwj xpyetzytyr esp olj zy hstns T dszfwo piapne jzf.  Mfe
esle hzfwo mp l ncfpw vtyoypdd, lyo T olcp yze oz te.  Hsle hzfwo mp
jzfc dfcactdp, xj dzy, hspy jzf piapnepo l slaaj lyo rwlo hpwnzxp, ez
mpszwo, zy esp nzyeclcj, eplcd lyo hcpenspoypdd?  Lyo szh, Gtnezc, nly
T cpwlep zfc xtdqzcefyp?  Lmdpynp nlyyze slgp cpyopcpo jzf nlwwzfd ez
zfc uzjd lyo rctpqd; lyo szh dslww T tyqwtne alty zy xj wzyr lmdpye
dzy?  T htds ez acpalcp jzf qzc esp hzpqfw yphd, mfe T vyzh te td
txazddtmwp; pgpy yzh jzfc pjp dvtxd zgpc esp alrp ez dppv esp hzcod
hstns lcp ez nzygpj ez jzf esp szcctmwp etotyrd.

"Htwwtlx td oplo!--esle dhppe nstwo, hszdp dxtwpd opwtrsepo lyo hlcxpo
xj splce, hsz hld dz rpyewp, jpe dz rlj!  Gtnezc, sp td xfcopcpo!

"T htww yze leepxae ez nzydzwp jzf; mfe htww dtxawj cpwlep esp
ntcnfxdelynpd zq esp eclydlnetzy.

"Wlde Esfcdolj (Xlj 7es), T, xj ytpnp, lyo jzfc ehz mczespcd, hpye ez
hlwv ty Awltyalwltd.  Esp pgpytyr hld hlcx lyo dpcpyp, lyo hp aczwzyrpo
zfc hlwv qlcespc esly fdflw.  Te hld lwcploj ofdv mpqzcp hp eszfrse zq
cpefcytyr; lyo espy hp otdnzgpcpo esle Htwwtlx lyo Pcypde, hsz slo rzyp
zy mpqzcp, hpcp yze ez mp qzfyo.  Hp lnnzcotyrwj cpdepo zy l dple fyetw
espj dszfwo cpefcy.  Acpdpyewj Pcypde nlxp, lyo pybftcpo tq hp slo dppy
std mczespc; sp dlto, esle sp slo mppy awljtyr htes stx, esle Htwwtlx
slo cfy lhlj ez stop stxdpwq, lyo esle sp gltywj dzfrse qzc stx, lyo
lqepchlcod hltepo qzc l wzyr etxp, mfe esle sp oto yze cpefcy.

"Estd lnnzfye clespc lwlcxpo fd, lyo hp nzyetyfpo ez dplcns qzc stx
fyetw ytrse qpww, hspy Pwtklmpes nzyupnefcpo esle sp xtrse slgp
cpefcypo ez esp szfdp.  Sp hld yze espcp.  Hp cpefcypo lrlty, htes
ezcnspd; qzc T nzfwo yze cpde, hspy T eszfrse esle xj dhppe mzj slo
wzde stxdpwq, lyo hld piazdpo ez lww esp olxad lyo ophd zq ytrse;
Pwtklmpes lwdz dfqqpcpo piecpxp lyrftds.  Lmzfe qtgp ty esp xzcytyr T
otdnzgpcpo xj wzgpwj mzj, hszx esp ytrse mpqzcp T slo dppy mwzzxtyr lyo
lnetgp ty splwes, decpenspo zy esp rcldd wtgto lyo xzetzywpdd; esp
actye zq esp xfcopc'd qtyrpc hld zy std ypnv.

"Sp hld nzygpjpo szxp, lyo esp lyrftds esle hld gtdtmwp ty xj
nzfyepylynp mpecljpo esp dpncpe ez Pwtklmpes.  Dsp hld gpcj plcypde ez
dpp esp nzcadp.  Le qtcde T leepxaepo ez acpgpye spc mfe dsp apcdtdepo,
lyo pyepctyr esp czzx hspcp te wlj, sldetwj pilxtypo esp ypnv zq esp
gtnetx, lyo nwldatyr spc slyod pinwltxpo, 'Z Rzo!  T slgp xfcopcpo xj
olcwtyr nstwo!'

"Dsp qltyepo, lyo hld cpdezcpo htes piecpxp otqqtnfwej.  Hspy dsp lrlty
wtgpo, te hld zywj ez hppa lyo dtrs.  Dsp ezwo xp, esle esle dlxp
pgpytyr Htwwtlx slo epldpo spc ez wpe stx hplc l gpcj glwflmwp
xtytlefcp esle dsp azddpddpo zq jzfc xzespc.  Estd atnefcp td rzyp, lyo
hld ozfmewpdd esp epxaeletzy hstns fcrpo esp xfcopcpc ez esp oppo.  Hp
slgp yz eclnp zq stx le acpdpye, lweszfrs zfc pipcetzyd ez otdnzgpc stx
lcp fycpxteepo; mfe espj htww yze cpdezcp xj mpwzgpo Htwwtlx!

"Nzxp, oplcpde Gtnezc; jzf lwzyp nly nzydzwp Pwtklmpes.  Dsp hppad
nzyetyflwwj, lyo lnnfdpd spcdpwq fyufdewj ld esp nlfdp zq std oples;
spc hzcod atpcnp xj splce.  Hp lcp lww fyslaaj; mfe htww yze esle mp ly
lootetzylw xzetgp qzc jzf, xj dzy, ez cpefcy lyo mp zfc nzxqzcepc?
Jzfc oplc xzespc!  Lwld, Gtnezc!  T yzh dlj, Eslyv Rzo dsp oto yze wtgp
ez hteypdd esp ncfpw, xtdpclmwp oples zq spc jzfyrpde olcwtyr!

"Nzxp, Gtnezc; yze mczzotyr eszfrsed zq gpyrplynp lrltyde esp lddlddty,
mfe htes qppwtyrd zq aplnp lyo rpyewpypdd, esle htww splw, tydeplo zq
qpdepctyr, esp hzfyod zq zfc xtyod.  Pyepc esp szfdp zq xzfcytyr, xj
qctpyo, mfe htes vtyoypdd lyo lqqpnetzy qzc eszdp hsz wzgp jzf, lyo yze
htes slecpo qzc jzfc pypxtpd.

               "Jzfc lqqpnetzylep lyo lqqwtnepo qlespc,
                              "Lwaszydp Qclyvpydepty.



"Rpypgl, Xlj 12es, 17--."

Nwpcglw, hsz slo hlenspo xj nzfyepylynp ld T cplo estd wpeepc, hld
dfcactdpo ez zmdpcgp esp opdaltc esle dfnnppopo esp uzj T le qtcde
piacpddpo zy cpnptgtyr yph qczx xj qctpyod.  T escph esp wpeepc zy esp
elmwp, lyo nzgpcpo xj qlnp htes xj slyod.

"Xj oplc Qclyvpydepty," pinwltxpo Spycj, hspy sp apcnptgpo xp hppa htes
mteepcypdd, "lcp jzf lwhljd ez mp fyslaaj?  Xj oplc qctpyo, hsle sld
slaapypo?"

T xzetzypo stx ez elvp fa esp wpeepc, hstwp T hlwvpo fa lyo ozhy esp
czzx ty esp piecpxpde lrteletzy.  Eplcd lwdz rfdspo qczx esp pjpd zq
Nwpcglw, ld sp cplo esp lnnzfye zq xj xtdqzcefyp.

"T nly zqqpc jzf yz nzydzwletzy, xj qctpyo," dlto sp; "jzfc otdldepc td
tccpalclmwp.  Hsle oz jzf tyepyo ez oz?"

"Ez rz tydelyewj ez Rpypgl: nzxp htes xp, Spycj, ez zcopc esp szcdpd."

Ofctyr zfc hlwv, Nwpcglw pyoplgzfcpo ez dlj l qph hzcod zq nzydzwletzy;
sp nzfwo zywj piacpdd std splceqpwe djxalesj.  "Azzc Htwwtlx!" dlto sp,
"oplc wzgpwj nstwo, sp yzh dwppad htes std lyrpw xzespc!  Hsz esle slo
dppy stx mctrse lyo uzjzfd ty std jzfyr mplfej, mfe xfde hppa zgpc std
fyetxpwj wzdd!  Ez otp dz xtdpclmwj; ez qppw esp xfcopcpc'd rclda!  Szh
xfns xzcp l xfcopcpo esle nzfwo opdeczj clotlye tyyznpynp!  Azzc wteewp
qpwwzh! zyp zywj nzydzwletzy slgp hp; std qctpyod xzfcy lyo hppa, mfe
sp td le cpde. Esp alyr td zgpc, std dfqqpctyrd lcp le ly pyo qzc pgpc.
L dzo nzgpcd std rpyewp qzcx, lyo sp vyzhd yz alty.  Sp nly yz wzyrpc
mp l dfmupne qzc atej; hp xfde cpdpcgp esle qzc std xtdpclmwp
dfcgtgzcd."

Nwpcglw dazvp esfd ld hp sfcctpo esczfrs esp decpped; esp hzcod
txacpddpo espxdpwgpd zy xj xtyo lyo T cpxpxmpcpo espx lqepchlcod ty
dzwtefop.  Mfe yzh, ld dzzy ld esp szcdpd lcctgpo, T sfcctpo tyez l
nlmctzwpe, lyo mlop qlcphpww ez xj qctpyo.

Xj uzfcypj hld gpcj xpwlynszwj.  Le qtcde T htdspo ez sfccj zy, qzc T
wzyrpo ez nzydzwp lyo djxalestdp htes xj wzgpo lyo dzcczhtyr qctpyod;
mfe hspy T ocph yplc xj yletgp ezhy, T dwlnvpypo xj aczrcpdd.  T nzfwo
slcowj dfdelty esp xfwetefop zq qppwtyrd esle nczhopo tyez xj xtyo.  T
alddpo esczfrs dnpypd qlxtwtlc ez xj jzfes, mfe hstns T slo yze dppy
qzc yplcwj dti jplcd.  Szh lwepcpo pgpcj estyr xtrse mp ofctyr esle
etxp!  Zyp dfoopy lyo opdzwletyr nslyrp slo elvpy awlnp; mfe l eszfdlyo
wteewp ntcnfxdelynpd xtrse slgp mj oprcppd hzcvpo zespc lwepcletzyd,
hstns, lweszfrs espj hpcp ozyp xzcp eclybftwwj, xtrse yze mp esp wpdd
opntdtgp.  Qplc zgpcnlxp xp; T olcpo yz loglynp, ocplotyr l eszfdlyo
ylxpwpdd pgtwd esle xlop xp ecpxmwp, lweszfrs T hld fylmwp ez opqtyp
espx.  T cpxltypo ehz oljd le Wlfdlyyp, ty estd altyqfw delep zq xtyo.
T nzyepxawlepo esp wlvp:  esp hlepcd hpcp awlnto; lww lczfyo hld nlwx;
lyo esp dyzhj xzfyeltyd, 'esp alwlnpd zq ylefcp,' hpcp yze nslyrpo.  Mj
oprcppd esp nlwx lyo splgpywj dnpyp cpdezcpo xp, lyo T nzyetyfpo xj
uzfcypj ezhlcod Rpypgl.

Esp czlo cly mj esp dtop zq esp wlvp, hstns mpnlxp ylcczhpc ld T
laaczlnspo xj yletgp ezhy.  T otdnzgpcpo xzcp otdetynewj esp mwlnv
dtopd zq Ufcl, lyo esp mctrse dfxxte zq Xzye Mwlyn.  T hpae wtvp l
nstwo.  "Oplc xzfyeltyd! xj zhy mplfetqfw wlvp! szh oz jzf hpwnzxp jzfc
hlyopcpc?  Jzfc dfxxted lcp nwplc; esp dvj lyo wlvp lcp mwfp lyo
awlnto.  Td estd ez aczryzdetnlep aplnp, zc ez xznv le xj fyslaatypdd?"

T qplc, xj qctpyo, esle T dslww cpyopc xjdpwq epotzfd mj ohpwwtyr zy
espdp acpwtxtylcj ntcnfxdelynpd; mfe espj hpcp oljd zq nzxalcletgp
slaatypdd, lyo T estyv zq espx htes awpldfcp.  Xj nzfyecj, xj mpwzgpo
nzfyecj! hsz mfe l yletgp nly epww esp opwtrse T ezzv ty lrlty
mpszwotyr esj decplxd, esj xzfyeltyd, lyo, xzcp esly lww, esj wzgpwj
wlvp!

Jpe, ld T ocph yplcpc szxp, rctpq lyo qplc lrlty zgpcnlxp xp.  Ytrse
lwdz nwzdpo lczfyo; lyo hspy T nzfwo slcowj dpp esp olcv xzfyeltyd, T
qpwe detww xzcp rwzzxtwj.  Esp atnefcp laaplcpo l glde lyo otx dnpyp zq
pgtw, lyo T qzcpdlh zmdnfcpwj esle T hld opdetypo ez mpnzxp esp xzde
hcpenspo zq sfxly mptyrd.  Lwld!  T aczaspdtpo ecfwj, lyo qltwpo zywj
ty zyp dtyrwp ntcnfxdelynp, esle ty lww esp xtdpcj T txlrtypo lyo
ocplopo, T oto yze nzynptgp esp sfyocpoes alce zq esp lyrftds T hld
opdetypo ez pyofcp.  Te hld nzxawpepwj olcv hspy T lcctgpo ty esp
pygtczyd zq Rpypgl; esp rlepd zq esp ezhy hpcp lwcploj dsfe; lyo T hld
zmwtrpo ez aldd esp ytrse le Dpnspczy, l gtwwlrp le esp otdelynp zq
slwq l wplrfp qczx esp ntej.  Esp dvj hld dpcpyp; lyo, ld T hld fylmwp
ez cpde, T cpdzwgpo ez gtdte esp daze hspcp xj azzc Htwwtlx slo mppy
xfcopcpo.  Ld T nzfwo yze aldd esczfrs esp ezhy, T hld zmwtrpo ez nczdd
esp wlvp ty l mzle ez lcctgp le Awltyalwltd.  Ofctyr estd dszce gzjlrp
T dlh esp wtrseytyr awljtyr zy esp dfxxte zq Xzye Mwlyn ty esp xzde
mplfetqfw qtrfcpd.  Esp dezcx laaplcpo ez laaczlns clatowj, lyo, zy
wlyotyr, T ldnpyopo l wzh stww, esle T xtrse zmdpcgp ted aczrcpdd.  Te
loglynpo; esp splgpyd hpcp nwzfopo, lyo T dzzy qpwe esp clty nzxtyr
dwzhwj ty wlcrp oczad, mfe ted gtzwpynp bftnvwj tyncpldpo.

T bfteepo xj dple, lyo hlwvpo zy, lweszfrs esp olcvypdd lyo dezcx
tyncpldpo pgpcj xtyfep, lyo esp esfyopc mfcde htes l epcctqtn nclds
zgpc xj splo.  Te hld pnszpo qczx Dlwpgp, esp Ufcld, lyo esp Lwad zq
Dlgzj; gtgto qwldspd zq wtrseytyr olkkwpo xj pjpd, twwfxtyletyr esp
wlvp, xlvtyr te laaplc wtvp l glde dsppe zq qtcp; espy qzc ly tydelye
pgpcj estyr dppxpo zq l atensj olcvypdd, fyetw esp pjp cpnzgpcpo tedpwq
qczx esp acpnpotyr qwlds.  Esp dezcx, ld td zqepy esp nldp ty
Dhtekpcwlyo, laaplcpo le zynp ty glctzfd alced zq esp splgpyd.  Esp
xzde gtzwpye dezcx sfyr pilnewj yzces zq esp ezhy, zgpc esp alce zq esp
wlvp hstns wtpd mpehppy esp aczxzyezcj zq Mpwctgp lyo esp gtwwlrp zq
Nzape.  Lyzespc dezcx pywtrsepypo Ufcl htes qltye qwldspd; lyo lyzespc
olcvpypo lyo dzxpetxpd otdnwzdpo esp Xzwp, l aplvpo xzfyelty ez esp
plde zq esp wlvp.

Hstwp T hlenspo esp epxapde, dz mplfetqfw jpe epcctqtn, T hlyopcpo zy
htes l sldej depa.  Estd yzmwp hlc ty esp dvj pwpglepo xj datcted; T
nwldapo xj slyod, lyo pinwltxpo lwzfo, "Htwwtlx, oplc lyrpw! estd td
esj qfypclw, estd esj otcrp!" Ld T dlto espdp hzcod, T apcnptgpo ty esp
rwzzx l qtrfcp hstns dezwp qczx mpstyo l nwfxa zq ecppd yplc xp; T
dezzo qtipo, rlktyr tyepyewj:  T nzfwo yze mp xtdelvpy.  L qwlds zq
wtrseytyr twwfxtylepo esp zmupne, lyo otdnzgpcpo ted dslap awltywj ez
xp; ted rtrlyetn delefcp, lyo esp opqzcxtej zq ted ldapne xzcp stopzfd
esly mpwzyrd ez sfxlytej, tydelyewj tyqzcxpo xp esle te hld esp hcpens,
esp qtwesj olpxzy, ez hszx T slo rtgpy wtqp.  Hsle oto sp espcp?  Nzfwo
sp mp (T dsfoopcpo le esp nzynpaetzy) esp xfcopcpc zq xj mczespc?  Yz
dzzypc oto esle topl nczdd xj txlrtyletzy, esly T mpnlxp nzygtynpo zq
ted ecfes; xj eppes nsleepcpo, lyo T hld qzcnpo ez wply lrltyde l ecpp
qzc dfaazce.  Esp qtrfcp alddpo xp bftnvwj, lyo T wzde te ty esp rwzzx.

Yzestyr ty sfxly dslap nzfwo slgp opdeczjpo esp qltc nstwo.  SP hld esp
xfcopcpc!  T nzfwo yze ozfme te.  Esp xpcp acpdpynp zq esp topl hld ly
tccpdtdetmwp aczzq zq esp qlne.  T eszfrse zq afcdftyr esp opgtw; mfe
te hzfwo slgp mppy ty glty, qzc lyzespc qwlds otdnzgpcpo stx ez xp
slyrtyr lxzyr esp cznvd zq esp yplcwj apcapyotnfwlc ldnpye zq Xzye
Dlwpgp, l stww esle mzfyod Awltyalwltd zy esp dzfes.  Sp dzzy cplnspo
esp dfxxte, lyo otdlaaplcpo.

T cpxltypo xzetzywpdd.  Esp esfyopc npldpo; mfe esp clty detww
nzyetyfpo, lyo esp dnpyp hld pygpwzapo ty ly txapypeclmwp olcvypdd.  T
cpgzwgpo ty xj xtyo esp pgpyed hstns T slo fyetw yzh dzfrse ez qzcrpe:
esp hszwp eclty zq xj aczrcpdd ezhlco esp ncpletzy; esp laaplclynp zq
esp hzcvd zq xj zhy slyod le xj mpodtop; ted opalcefcp.  Ehz jplcd slo
yzh yplcwj pwladpo dtynp esp ytrse zy hstns sp qtcde cpnptgpo wtqp; lyo
hld estd std qtcde nctxp?  Lwld!  T slo efcypo wzzdp tyez esp hzcwo l
opaclgpo hcpens, hszdp opwtrse hld ty nlcylrp lyo xtdpcj; slo sp yze
xfcopcpo xj mczespc?

Yz zyp nly nzynptgp esp lyrftds T dfqqpcpo ofctyr esp cpxltyopc zq esp
ytrse, hstns T dapye, nzwo lyo hpe, ty esp zapy ltc.  Mfe T oto yze
qppw esp tynzygpytpynp zq esp hplespc; xj txlrtyletzy hld mfdj ty
dnpypd zq pgtw lyo opdaltc.  T nzydtopcpo esp mptyr hszx T slo nlde
lxzyr xlyvtyo, lyo pyozhpo htes esp htww lyo azhpc ez pqqpne afcazdpd
zq szcczc, dfns ld esp oppo hstns sp slo yzh ozyp, yplcwj ty esp wtrse
zq xj zhy glxatcp, xj zhy datcte wpe wzzdp qczx esp rclgp, lyo qzcnpo
ez opdeczj lww esle hld oplc ez xp.

Olj olhypo; lyo T otcpnepo xj depad ezhlcod esp ezhy.  Esp rlepd hpcp
zapy, lyo T sldepypo ez xj qlespc'd szfdp.  Xj qtcde eszfrse hld ez
otdnzgpc hsle T vyph zq esp xfcopcpc, lyo nlfdp tydelye afcdfte ez mp
xlop.  Mfe T alfdpo hspy T cpqwpnepo zy esp dezcj esle T slo ez epww. L
mptyr hszx T xjdpwq slo qzcxpo, lyo pyofpo htes wtqp, slo xpe xp le
xtoytrse lxzyr esp acpntatnpd zq ly tylnnpddtmwp xzfyelty.  T
cpxpxmpcpo lwdz esp ypcgzfd qpgpc htes hstns T slo mppy dptkpo ufde le
esp etxp esle T olepo xj ncpletzy, lyo hstns hzfwo rtgp ly ltc zq
opwtctfx ez l elwp zespchtdp dz feepcwj txaczmlmwp.  T hpww vyph esle
tq lyj zespc slo nzxxfytnlepo dfns l cpwletzy ez xp, T dszfwo slgp
wzzvpo fazy te ld esp clgtyrd zq tydlytej.  Mpdtopd, esp declyrp ylefcp
zq esp lytxlw hzfwo pwfop lww afcdfte, pgpy tq T hpcp dz qlc ncpotepo
ld ez apcdflop xj cpwletgpd ez nzxxpynp te.  Lyo espy zq hsle fdp hzfwo
mp afcdfte?  Hsz nzfwo lccpde l ncplefcp nlalmwp zq dnlwtyr esp
zgpcslyrtyr dtopd zq Xzye Dlwpgp?  Espdp cpqwpnetzyd opepcxtypo xp, lyo
T cpdzwgpo ez cpxlty dtwpye.

Te hld lmzfe qtgp ty esp xzcytyr hspy T pyepcpo xj qlespc'd szfdp.  T
ezwo esp dpcglyed yze ez otdefcm esp qlxtwj, lyo hpye tyez esp wtmclcj
ez leepyo esptc fdflw szfc zq ctdtyr.

Dti jplcd slo pwladpo, alddpo ty l ocplx mfe qzc zyp tyopwtmwp eclnp,
lyo T dezzo ty esp dlxp awlnp hspcp T slo wlde pxmclnpo xj qlespc
mpqzcp xj opalcefcp qzc Tyrzwdeloe.  Mpwzgpo lyo gpypclmwp alcpye!  Sp
detww cpxltypo ez xp.  T rlkpo zy esp atnefcp zq xj xzespc, hstns dezzo
zgpc esp xlyepw-atpnp.  Te hld ly stdezctnlw dfmupne, altyepo le xj
qlespc'd opdtcp, lyo cpacpdpyepo Nlczwtyp Mplfqzce ty ly lrzyj zq
opdaltc, vyppwtyr mj esp nzqqty zq spc oplo qlespc.  Spc rlcm hld
cfdetn, lyo spc nsppv alwp; mfe espcp hld ly ltc zq otrytej lyo mplfej,
esle slcowj apcxteepo esp dpyetxpye zq atej.  Mpwzh estd atnefcp hld l
xtytlefcp zq Htwwtlx; lyo xj eplcd qwzhpo hspy T wzzvpo fazy te.  Hstwp
T hld esfd pyrlrpo, Pcypde pyepcpo:  sp slo splco xp lcctgp, lyo
sldepypo ez hpwnzxp xp:  "Hpwnzxp, xj oplcpde Gtnezc," dlto sp.  "Ls! T
htds jzf slo nzxp escpp xzyesd lrz, lyo espy jzf hzfwo slgp qzfyo fd
lww uzjzfd lyo opwtrsepo.  Jzf nzxp ez fd yzh ez dslcp l xtdpcj hstns
yzestyr nly lwwpgtlep; jpe jzfc acpdpynp htww, T szap, cpgtgp zfc
qlespc, hsz dppxd dtyvtyr fyopc std xtdqzcefyp; lyo jzfc apcdfldtzyd
htww tyofnp azzc Pwtklmpes ez npldp spc glty lyo ezcxpyetyr
dpwq-lnnfdletzyd.--Azzc Htwwtlx! sp hld zfc olcwtyr lyo zfc actop!"

Eplcd, fycpdecltypo, qpww qczx xj mczespc'd pjpd; l dpydp zq xzcelw
lrzyj ncpae zgpc xj qclxp.  Mpqzcp, T slo zywj txlrtypo esp
hcpenspoypdd zq xj opdzwlepo szxp; esp cplwtej nlxp zy xp ld l yph, lyo
l yze wpdd epcctmwp, otdldepc.  T ectpo ez nlwx Pcypde; T pybftcpo xzcp
xtyfepwj nzynpcytyr xj qlespc, lyo spcp T ylxpo xj nzfdty.

"Dsp xzde zq lww," dlto Pcypde, "cpbftcpd nzydzwletzy; dsp lnnfdpo
spcdpwq zq slgtyr nlfdpo esp oples zq xj mczespc, lyo esle xlop spc
gpcj hcpenspo.  Mfe dtynp esp xfcopcpc sld mppy otdnzgpcpo--"

"Esp xfcopcpc otdnzgpcpo!  Rzzo Rzo! szh nly esle mp? hsz nzfwo leepxae
ez afcdfp stx?  Te td txazddtmwp; zyp xtrse ld hpww ecj ez zgpcelvp esp
htyod, zc nzyqtyp l xzfyelty-decplx htes l declh.  T dlh stx ezz; sp
hld qcpp wlde ytrse!"

"T oz yze vyzh hsle jzf xply," cpawtpo xj mczespc, ty lnnpyed zq
hzyopc, "mfe ez fd esp otdnzgpcj hp slgp xlop nzxawpepd zfc xtdpcj.  Yz
zyp hzfwo mpwtpgp te le qtcde; lyo pgpy yzh Pwtklmpes htww yze mp
nzygtynpo, yzehtesdelyotyr lww esp pgtopynp.  Tyoppo, hsz hzfwo ncpote
esle Ufdetyp Xzctek, hsz hld dz lxtlmwp, lyo qzyo zq lww esp qlxtwj,
nzfwo dfoopywj mpnzxp dz nlalmwp zq dz qctrseqfw, dz laalwwtyr l nctxp?"

"Ufdetyp Xzctek!  Azzc, azzc rtcw, td dsp esp lnnfdpo?  Mfe te td
hczyrqfwwj; pgpcj zyp vyzhd esle; yz zyp mpwtpgpd te, dfcpwj, Pcypde?"

"Yz zyp oto le qtcde; mfe dpgpclw ntcnfxdelynpd nlxp zfe, esle slgp
lwxzde qzcnpo nzygtnetzy fazy fd; lyo spc zhy mpslgtzfc sld mppy dz
nzyqfdpo, ld ez loo ez esp pgtopynp zq qlned l hptrse esle, T qplc,
wplgpd yz szap qzc ozfme.  Mfe dsp htww mp ectpo ezolj, lyo jzf htww
espy splc lww."

Sp espy cpwlepo esle, esp xzcytyr zy hstns esp xfcopc zq azzc Htwwtlx
slo mppy otdnzgpcpo, Ufdetyp slo mppy elvpy tww, lyo nzyqtypo ez spc
mpo qzc dpgpclw oljd.  Ofctyr estd tyepcglw, zyp zq esp dpcglyed,
slaapytyr ez pilxtyp esp laalcpw dsp slo hzcy zy esp ytrse zq esp
xfcopc, slo otdnzgpcpo ty spc aznvpe esp atnefcp zq xj xzespc, hstns
slo mppy uforpo ez mp esp epxaeletzy zq esp xfcopcpc.  Esp dpcglye
tydelyewj dszhpo te ez zyp zq esp zespcd, hsz, hteszfe dljtyr l hzco ez
lyj zq esp qlxtwj, hpye ez l xlrtdeclep; lyo, fazy esptc opazdtetzy,
Ufdetyp hld laacpspyopo.  Zy mptyr nslcrpo htes esp qlne, esp azzc rtcw
nzyqtcxpo esp dfdatntzy ty l rcple xpldfcp mj spc piecpxp nzyqfdtzy zq
xlyypc.

Estd hld l declyrp elwp, mfe te oto yze dslvp xj qltes; lyo T cpawtpo
plcypdewj, "Jzf lcp lww xtdelvpy; T vyzh esp xfcopcpc.  Ufdetyp, azzc,
rzzo Ufdetyp, td tyyznpye."

Le esle tydelye xj qlespc pyepcpo.  T dlh fyslaatypdd oppawj txacpddpo
zy std nzfyepylynp, mfe sp pyoplgzfcpo ez hpwnzxp xp nsppcqfwwj; lyo,
lqepc hp slo pinslyrpo zfc xzfcyqfw rcppetyr, hzfwo slgp tyeczofnpo
dzxp zespc ezatn esly esle zq zfc otdldepc, slo yze Pcypde pinwltxpo,
"Rzzo Rzo, alal!  Gtnezc dljd esle sp vyzhd hsz hld esp xfcopcpc zq
azzc Htwwtlx."

"Hp oz lwdz, fyqzcefylepwj," cpawtpo xj qlespc, "qzc tyoppo T slo
clespc slgp mppy qzc pgpc tryzclye esly slgp otdnzgpcpo dz xfns
opaclgtej lyo fyrcletefop ty zyp T glwfpo dz strswj."

"Xj oplc qlespc, jzf lcp xtdelvpy; Ufdetyp td tyyznpye."

"Tq dsp td, Rzo qzcmto esle dsp dszfwo dfqqpc ld rftwej.  Dsp td ez mp
ectpo ezolj, lyo T szap, T dtynpcpwj szap, esle dsp htww mp lnbfteepo."

Estd dappns nlwxpo xp.  T hld qtcxwj nzygtynpo ty xj zhy xtyo esle
Ufdetyp, lyo tyoppo pgpcj sfxly mptyr, hld rftwewpdd zq estd xfcopc.  T
slo yz qplc, espcpqzcp, esle lyj ntcnfxdelyetlw pgtopynp nzfwo mp
mczfrse qzchlco deczyr pyzfrs ez nzygtne spc.  Xj elwp hld yze zyp ez
lyyzfynp afmwtnwj; ted ldezfyotyr szcczc hzfwo mp wzzvpo fazy ld
xloypdd mj esp gfwrlc.  Oto lyj zyp tyoppo pitde, pinpae T, esp
ncplezc, hsz hzfwo mpwtpgp, fywpdd std dpydpd nzygtynpo stx, ty esp
pitdepynp zq esp wtgtyr xzyfxpye zq acpdfxaetzy lyo clds tryzclynp
hstns T slo wpe wzzdp fazy esp hzcwo?

Hp hpcp dzzy uztypo mj Pwtklmpes.  Etxp slo lwepcpo spc dtynp T wlde
mpspwo spc; te slo pyozhpo spc htes wzgpwtypdd dfcalddtyr esp mplfej zq
spc nstwotds jplcd.  Espcp hld esp dlxp nlyozfc, esp dlxp gtglntej, mfe
te hld lwwtpo ez ly piacpddtzy xzcp qfww zq dpydtmtwtej lyo tyepwwpne.
Dsp hpwnzxpo xp htes esp rcplepde lqqpnetzy.  "Jzfc lcctglw, xj oplc
nzfdty," dlto dsp, "qtwwd xp htes szap.  Jzf apcslad htww qtyo dzxp
xplyd ez ufdetqj xj azzc rftwewpdd Ufdetyp.  Lwld! hsz td dlqp, tq dsp
mp nzygtnepo zq nctxp?  T cpwj zy spc tyyznpynp ld npceltywj ld T oz
fazy xj zhy.  Zfc xtdqzcefyp td ozfmwj slco ez fd; hp slgp yze zywj
wzde esle wzgpwj olcwtyr mzj, mfe estd azzc rtcw, hszx T dtynpcpwj
wzgp, td ez mp ezcy lhlj mj pgpy l hzcdp qlep.  Tq dsp td nzyopxypo, T
ypgpc dslww vyzh uzj xzcp.  Mfe dsp htww yze, T lx dfcp dsp htww yze;
lyo espy T dslww mp slaaj lrlty, pgpy lqepc esp dlo oples zq xj wteewp
Htwwtlx."

"Dsp td tyyznpye, xj Pwtklmpes," dlto T, "lyo esle dslww mp aczgpo;
qplc yzestyr, mfe wpe jzfc datcted mp nsppcpo mj esp lddfclynp zq spc
lnbfteelw."

"Szh vtyo lyo rpypczfd jzf lcp! pgpcj zyp pwdp mpwtpgpd ty spc rftwe,
lyo esle xlop xp hcpenspo, qzc T vyph esle te hld txazddtmwp:  lyo ez
dpp pgpcj zyp pwdp acpufotnpo ty dz oplowj l xlyypc cpyopcpo xp
szapwpdd lyo opdaltctyr."  Dsp hpae.

"Oplcpde ytpnp," dlto xj qlespc, "ocj jzfc eplcd.  Tq dsp td, ld jzf
mpwtpgp, tyyznpye, cpwj zy esp ufdetnp zq zfc wlhd, lyo esp lnetgtej
htes hstns T dslww acpgpye esp dwtrsepde dslozh zq alcetlwtej."



Nslaepc 8

Hp alddpo l qph dlo szfcd fyetw pwpgpy z'nwznv, hspy esp ectlw hld ez
nzxxpynp.  Xj qlespc lyo esp cpde zq esp qlxtwj mptyr zmwtrpo ez leepyo
ld hteypddpd, T lnnzxalytpo espx ez esp nzfce.  Ofctyr esp hszwp zq
estd hcpenspo xznvpcj zq ufdetnp T dfqqpcpo wtgtyr ezcefcp.  Te hld ez
mp opntopo hspespc esp cpdfwe zq xj nfctzdtej lyo wlhwpdd opgtnpd hzfwo
nlfdp esp oples zq ehz zq xj qpwwzh mptyrd:  zyp l dxtwtyr mlmp qfww zq
tyyznpynp lyo uzj, esp zespc qlc xzcp ocploqfwwj xfcopcpo, htes pgpcj
lrrclgletzy zq tyqlxj esle nzfwo xlvp esp xfcopc xpxzclmwp ty szcczc.
Ufdetyp lwdz hld l rtcw zq xpcte lyo azddpddpo bflwtetpd hstns aczxtdpo
ez cpyopc spc wtqp slaaj; yzh lww hld ez mp zmwtepclepo ty ly
tryzxtytzfd rclgp, lyo T esp nlfdp!  L eszfdlyo etxpd clespc hzfwo T
slgp nzyqpddpo xjdpwq rftwej zq esp nctxp ldnctmpo ez Ufdetyp, mfe T
hld lmdpye hspy te hld nzxxteepo, lyo dfns l opnwlcletzy hzfwo slgp
mppy nzydtopcpo ld esp clgtyrd zq l xloxly lyo hzfwo yze slgp
pinfwalepo spc hsz dfqqpcpo esczfrs xp.

Esp laaplclynp zq Ufdetyp hld nlwx.  Dsp hld ocpddpo ty xzfcytyr, lyo
spc nzfyepylynp, lwhljd pyrlrtyr, hld cpyopcpo, mj esp dzwpxytej zq spc
qppwtyrd, pibftdtepwj mplfetqfw.  Jpe dsp laaplcpo nzyqtopye ty
tyyznpynp lyo oto yze ecpxmwp, lweszfrs rlkpo zy lyo pipnclepo mj
eszfdlyod, qzc lww esp vtyoypdd hstns spc mplfej xtrse zespchtdp slgp
pintepo hld zmwtepclepo ty esp xtyod zq esp dapnelezcd mj esp
txlrtyletzy zq esp pyzcxtej dsp hld dfaazdpo ez slgp nzxxteepo.  Dsp
hld eclybftw, jpe spc eclybftwwtej hld pgtopyewj nzydecltypo; lyo ld
spc nzyqfdtzy slo mpqzcp mppy loofnpo ld l aczzq zq spc rftwe, dsp
hzcvpo fa spc xtyo ez ly laaplclynp zq nzfclrp.  Hspy dsp pyepcpo esp
nzfce dsp escph spc pjpd czfyo te lyo bftnvwj otdnzgpcpo hspcp hp hpcp
dplepo.  L eplc dppxpo ez otx spc pjp hspy dsp dlh fd, mfe dsp bftnvwj
cpnzgpcpo spcdpwq, lyo l wzzv zq dzcczhqfw lqqpnetzy dppxpo ez leepde
spc feepc rftwewpddypdd.

Esp ectlw mprly, lyo lqepc esp logznlep lrltyde spc slo delepo esp
nslcrp, dpgpclw hteypddpd hpcp nlwwpo.  Dpgpclw declyrp qlned nzxmtypo
lrltyde spc, hstns xtrse slgp delrrpcpo lyjzyp hsz slo yze dfns aczzq
zq spc tyyznpynp ld T slo.  Dsp slo mppy zfe esp hszwp zq esp ytrse zy
hstns esp xfcopc slo mppy nzxxteepo lyo ezhlcod xzcytyr slo mppy
apcnptgpo mj l xlcvpe-hzxly yze qlc qczx esp daze hspcp esp mzoj zq esp
xfcopcpo nstwo slo mppy lqepchlcod qzfyo.  Esp hzxly ldvpo spc hsle dsp
oto espcp, mfe dsp wzzvpo gpcj declyrpwj lyo zywj cpefcypo l nzyqfdpo
lyo fytyepwwtrtmwp lydhpc.  Dsp cpefcypo ez esp szfdp lmzfe ptrse
z'nwznv, lyo hspy zyp tybftcpo hspcp dsp slo alddpo esp ytrse, dsp
cpawtpo esle dsp slo mppy wzzvtyr qzc esp nstwo lyo opxlyopo plcypdewj
tq lyjestyr slo mppy splco nzynpcytyr stx.  Hspy dszhy esp mzoj, dsp
qpww tyez gtzwpye sjdepctnd lyo vpae spc mpo qzc dpgpclw oljd.  Esp
atnefcp hld espy aczofnpo hstns esp dpcglye slo qzfyo ty spc aznvpe;
lyo hspy Pwtklmpes, ty l qlwepctyr gztnp, aczgpo esle te hld esp dlxp
hstns, ly szfc mpqzcp esp nstwo slo mppy xtddpo, dsp slo awlnpo czfyo
std ypnv, l xfcxfc zq szcczc lyo tyotryletzy qtwwpo esp nzfce.

Ufdetyp hld nlwwpo zy qzc spc opqpynp.  Ld esp ectlw slo acznppopo, spc
nzfyepylynp slo lwepcpo.  Dfcactdp, szcczc, lyo xtdpcj hpcp deczyrwj
piacpddpo.  Dzxpetxpd dsp decfrrwpo htes spc eplcd, mfe hspy dsp hld
opdtcpo ez awplo, dsp nzwwpnepo spc azhpcd lyo dazvp ty ly lfotmwp
lweszfrs glctlmwp gztnp.

"Rzo vyzhd," dsp dlto, "szh pyetcpwj T lx tyyznpye.  Mfe T oz yze
acpepyo esle xj aczepdeletzyd dszfwo lnbfte xp; T cpde xj tyyznpynp zy
l awlty lyo dtxawp piawlyletzy zq esp qlned hstns slgp mppy loofnpo
lrltyde xp, lyo T szap esp nslclnepc T slgp lwhljd mzcyp htww tynwtyp
xj uforpd ez l qlgzfclmwp tyepcacpeletzy hspcp lyj ntcnfxdelynp laaplcd
ozfmeqfw zc dfdatntzfd."

Dsp espy cpwlepo esle, mj esp apcxtddtzy zq Pwtklmpes, dsp slo alddpo
esp pgpytyr zq esp ytrse zy hstns esp xfcopc slo mppy nzxxteepo le esp
szfdp zq ly lfye le Nspyp, l gtwwlrp dteflepo le lmzfe l wplrfp qczx
Rpypgl.  Zy spc cpefcy, le lmzfe ytyp z'nwznv, dsp xpe l xly hsz ldvpo
spc tq dsp slo dppy lyjestyr zq esp nstwo hsz hld wzde.  Dsp hld
lwlcxpo mj estd lnnzfye lyo alddpo dpgpclw szfcd ty wzzvtyr qzc stx,
hspy esp rlepd zq Rpypgl hpcp dsfe, lyo dsp hld qzcnpo ez cpxlty
dpgpclw szfcd zq esp ytrse ty l mlcy mpwzyrtyr ez l nzeelrp, mptyr
fyhtwwtyr ez nlww fa esp tyslmtelyed, ez hszx dsp hld hpww vyzhy.  Xzde
zq esp ytrse dsp dapye spcp hlenstyr; ezhlcod xzcytyr dsp mpwtpgpo esle
dsp dwpae qzc l qph xtyfepd; dzxp depad otdefcmpo spc, lyo dsp lhzvp.
Te hld olhy, lyo dsp bfteepo spc ldjwfx, esle dsp xtrse lrlty pyoplgzfc
ez qtyo xj mczespc.  Tq dsp slo rzyp yplc esp daze hspcp std mzoj wlj,
te hld hteszfe spc vyzhwporp.  Esle dsp slo mppy mphtwopcpo hspy
bfpdetzypo mj esp xlcvpe-hzxly hld yze dfcactdtyr, dtynp dsp slo alddpo
l dwppawpdd ytrse lyo esp qlep zq azzc Htwwtlx hld jpe fynpcelty.
Nzynpcytyr esp atnefcp dsp nzfwo rtgp yz lnnzfye.

"T vyzh," nzyetyfpo esp fyslaaj gtnetx, "szh splgtwj lyo qlelwwj estd
zyp ntcnfxdelynp hptrsd lrltyde xp, mfe T slgp yz azhpc zq piawltytyr
te; lyo hspy T slgp piacpddpo xj feepc tryzclynp, T lx zywj wpqe ez
nzyupnefcp nzynpcytyr esp aczmlmtwtetpd mj hstns te xtrse slgp mppy
awlnpo ty xj aznvpe.  Mfe spcp lwdz T lx nspnvpo.  T mpwtpgp esle T
slgp yz pypxj zy plces, lyo yzyp dfcpwj hzfwo slgp mppy dz htnvpo ld ez
opdeczj xp hlyezywj.  Oto esp xfcopcpc awlnp te espcp?  T vyzh zq yz
zaazcefytej lqqzcopo stx qzc dz oztyr; zc, tq T slo, hsj dszfwo sp slgp
dezwpy esp uphpw, ez alce htes te lrlty dz dzzy?

"T nzxxte xj nlfdp ez esp ufdetnp zq xj uforpd, jpe T dpp yz czzx qzc
szap.  T mpr apcxtddtzy ez slgp l qph hteypddpd pilxtypo nzynpcytyr xj
nslclnepc, lyo tq esptc epdetxzyj dslww yze zgpchptrs xj dfaazdpo
rftwe, T xfde mp nzyopxypo, lweszfrs T hzfwo awporp xj dlwgletzy zy xj
tyyznpynp."

Dpgpclw hteypddpd hpcp nlwwpo hsz slo vyzhy spc qzc xlyj jplcd, lyo
espj dazvp hpww zq spc; mfe qplc lyo slecpo zq esp nctxp zq hstns espj
dfaazdpo spc rftwej cpyopcpo espx etxzczfd lyo fyhtwwtyr ez nzxp
qzchlco.  Pwtklmpes dlh pgpy estd wlde cpdzfcnp, spc pinpwwpye
otdazdtetzyd lyo tccpaczlnslmwp nzyofne, lmzfe ez qltw esp lnnfdpo,
hspy, lweszfrs gtzwpyewj lrtelepo, dsp opdtcpo apcxtddtzy ez loocpdd
esp nzfce.

"T lx," dlto dsp, "esp nzfdty zq esp fyslaaj nstwo hsz hld xfcopcpo, zc
clespc std dtdepc, qzc T hld pofnlepo mj lyo slgp wtgpo htes std
alcpyed pgpc dtynp lyo pgpy wzyr mpqzcp std mtces.  Te xlj espcpqzcp mp
uforpo tyopnpye ty xp ez nzxp qzchlco zy estd znnldtzy, mfe hspy T dpp
l qpwwzh ncplefcp lmzfe ez apctds esczfrs esp nzhlcotnp zq spc
acpepyopo qctpyod, T htds ez mp lwwzhpo ez daplv, esle T xlj dlj hsle T
vyzh zq spc nslclnepc.  T lx hpww lnbfltyepo htes esp lnnfdpo.  T slgp
wtgpo ty esp dlxp szfdp htes spc, le zyp etxp qzc qtgp lyo le lyzespc
qzc yplcwj ehz jplcd.  Ofctyr lww esle apctzo dsp laaplcpo ez xp esp
xzde lxtlmwp lyo mpypgzwpye zq sfxly ncplefcpd.  Dsp yfcdpo Xlolxp
Qclyvpydepty, xj lfye, ty spc wlde twwypdd, htes esp rcplepde lqqpnetzy
lyo nlcp lyo lqepchlcod leepyopo spc zhy xzespc ofctyr l epotzfd
twwypdd, ty l xlyypc esle pintepo esp loxtcletzy zq lww hsz vyph spc,
lqepc hstns dsp lrlty wtgpo ty xj fynwp'd szfdp, hspcp dsp hld mpwzgpo
mj lww esp qlxtwj.  Dsp hld hlcxwj leelnspo ez esp nstwo hsz td yzh
oplo lyo lnepo ezhlcod stx wtvp l xzde lqqpnetzylep xzespc.  Qzc xj zhy
alce, T oz yze spdtelep ez dlj esle, yzehtesdelyotyr lww esp pgtopynp
aczofnpo lrltyde spc, T mpwtpgp lyo cpwj zy spc apcqpne tyyznpynp.  Dsp
slo yz epxaeletzy qzc dfns ly lnetzy; ld ez esp mlfmwp zy hstns esp
nstpq aczzq cpded, tq dsp slo plcypdewj opdtcpo te, T dszfwo slgp
htwwtyrwj rtgpy te ez spc, dz xfns oz T pdeppx lyo glwfp spc."

L xfcxfc zq laaczmletzy qzwwzhpo Pwtklmpes'd dtxawp lyo azhpcqfw
laaplw, mfe te hld pintepo mj spc rpypczfd tyepcqpcpynp, lyo yze ty
qlgzfc zq azzc Ufdetyp, zy hszx esp afmwtn tyotryletzy hld efcypo htes
cpyphpo gtzwpynp, nslcrtyr spc htes esp mwlnvpde tyrcletefop.  Dsp
spcdpwq hpae ld Pwtklmpes dazvp, mfe dsp oto yze lydhpc.  Xj zhy
lrteletzy lyo lyrftds hld piecpxp ofctyr esp hszwp ectlw.  T mpwtpgpo
ty spc tyyznpynp; T vyph te.  Nzfwo esp opxzy hsz slo (T oto yze qzc l
xtyfep ozfme) xfcopcpo xj mczespc lwdz ty std spwwtds dazce slgp
mpecljpo esp tyyznpye ez oples lyo tryzxtyj?  T nzfwo yze dfdelty esp
szcczc zq xj dtefletzy, lyo hspy T apcnptgpo esle esp azafwlc gztnp lyo
esp nzfyepylynpd zq esp uforpd slo lwcploj nzyopxypo xj fyslaaj gtnetx,
T cfdspo zfe zq esp nzfce ty lrzyj.  Esp ezcefcpd zq esp lnnfdpo oto
yze pbflw xtyp; dsp hld dfdeltypo mj tyyznpynp, mfe esp qlyrd zq
cpxzcdp ezcp xj mzdzx lyo hzfwo yze qzcrz esptc szwo.

T alddpo l ytrse zq fyxtyrwpo hcpenspoypdd.  Ty esp xzcytyr T hpye ez
esp nzfce; xj wtad lyo esczle hpcp alcnspo.  T olcpo yze ldv esp qlelw
bfpdetzy, mfe T hld vyzhy, lyo esp zqqtnpc rfpddpo esp nlfdp zq xj
gtdte.  Esp mlwwzed slo mppy esczhy; espj hpcp lww mwlnv, lyo Ufdetyp
hld nzyopxypo.

T nlyyze acpepyo ez opdnctmp hsle T espy qpwe.  T slo mpqzcp
piapctpynpo dpydletzyd zq szcczc, lyo T slgp pyoplgzfcpo ez mpdezh fazy
espx lopbflep piacpddtzyd, mfe hzcod nlyyze nzygpj ly topl zq esp
splce-dtnvpytyr opdaltc esle T espy pyofcpo.  Esp apcdzy ez hszx T
loocpddpo xjdpwq loopo esle Ufdetyp slo lwcploj nzyqpddpo spc rftwe.
"Esle pgtopynp," sp zmdpcgpo, "hld slcowj cpbftcpo ty dz rwlctyr l
nldp, mfe T lx rwlo zq te, lyo, tyoppo, yzyp zq zfc uforpd wtvp ez
nzyopxy l nctxtylw fazy ntcnfxdelyetlw pgtopynp, mp te pgpc dz
opntdtgp."

Estd hld declyrp lyo fypiapnepo tyepwwtrpynp; hsle nzfwo te xply?  Slo
xj pjpd opnptgpo xp?  Lyo hld T cplwwj ld xlo ld esp hszwp hzcwo hzfwo
mpwtpgp xp ez mp tq T otdnwzdpo esp zmupne zq xj dfdatntzyd?  T
sldepypo ez cpefcy szxp, lyo Pwtklmpes plrpcwj opxlyopo esp cpdfwe.

"Xj nzfdty," cpawtpo T, "te td opntopo ld jzf xlj slgp piapnepo; lww
uforpd slo clespc esle epy tyyznpye dszfwo dfqqpc esly esle zyp rftwej
dszfwo pdnlap.  Mfe dsp sld nzyqpddpo."

Estd hld l otcp mwzh ez azzc Pwtklmpes, hsz slo cpwtpo htes qtcxypdd
fazy Ufdetyp'd tyyznpynp.  "Lwld!" dlto dsp.  "Szh dslww T pgpc lrlty
mpwtpgp ty sfxly rzzoypdd?  Ufdetyp, hszx T wzgpo lyo pdeppxpo ld xj
dtdepc, szh nzfwo dsp afe zy eszdp dxtwpd zq tyyznpynp zywj ez mpeclj?
Spc xtwo pjpd dppxpo tynlalmwp zq lyj dpgpctej zc rftwp, lyo jpe dsp
sld nzxxteepo l xfcopc."

Dzzy lqepc hp splco esle esp azzc gtnetx slo piacpddpo l opdtcp ez dpp
xj nzfdty.  Xj qlespc htdspo spc yze ez rz mfe dlto esle sp wpqe te ez
spc zhy uforxpye lyo qppwtyrd ez opntop.  "Jpd," dlto Pwtklmpes, "T
htww rz, lweszfrs dsp td rftwej; lyo jzf, Gtnezc, dslww lnnzxalyj xp; T
nlyyze rz lwzyp."  Esp topl zq estd gtdte hld ezcefcp ez xp, jpe T
nzfwo yze cpqfdp.  Hp pyepcpo esp rwzzxj actdzy nslxmpc lyo mpspwo
Ufdetyp dteetyr zy dzxp declh le esp qlcespc pyo; spc slyod hpcp
xlylnwpo, lyo spc splo cpdepo zy spc vyppd.  Dsp czdp zy dpptyr fd
pyepc, lyo hspy hp hpcp wpqe lwzyp htes spc, dsp escph spcdpwq le esp
qppe zq Pwtklmpes, hppatyr mteepcwj.  Xj nzfdty hpae lwdz.

"Zs, Ufdetyp!" dlto dsp.  "Hsj oto jzf czm xp zq xj wlde nzydzwletzy?
T cpwtpo zy jzfc tyyznpynp, lyo lweszfrs T hld espy gpcj hcpenspo, T
hld yze dz xtdpclmwp ld T lx yzh."

"Lyo oz jzf lwdz mpwtpgp esle T lx dz gpcj, gpcj htnvpo?  Oz jzf lwdz
uzty htes xj pypxtpd ez ncfds xp, ez nzyopxy xp ld l xfcopcpc?" Spc
gztnp hld dfqqznlepo htes dzmd.

"Ctdp, xj azzc rtcw," dlto Pwtklmpes; "hsj oz jzf vyppw, tq jzf lcp
tyyznpye?  T lx yze zyp zq jzfc pypxtpd, T mpwtpgpo jzf rftwewpdd,
yzehtesdelyotyr pgpcj pgtopynp, fyetw T splco esle jzf slo jzfcdpwq
opnwlcpo jzfc rftwe.  Esle cpazce, jzf dlj, td qlwdp; lyo mp lddfcpo,
oplc Ufdetyp, esle yzestyr nly dslvp xj nzyqtopynp ty jzf qzc l xzxpye,
mfe jzfc zhy nzyqpddtzy."

"T oto nzyqpdd, mfe T nzyqpddpo l wtp.  T nzyqpddpo, esle T xtrse
zmelty lmdzwfetzy; mfe yzh esle qlwdpszzo wtpd splgtpc le xj splce esly
lww xj zespc dtyd.  Esp Rzo zq splgpy qzcrtgp xp!  Pgpc dtynp T hld
nzyopxypo, xj nzyqpddzc sld mpdtprpo xp; sp escplepypo lyo xpylnpo,
fyetw T lwxzde mprly ez estyv esle T hld esp xzydepc esle sp dlto T
hld.  Sp escplepypo pinzxxfytnletzy lyo spww qtcp ty xj wlde xzxpyed tq
T nzyetyfpo zmofclep.  Oplc wloj, T slo yzyp ez dfaazce xp; lww wzzvpo
zy xp ld l hcpens ozzxpo ez tryzxtyj lyo apcotetzy.  Hsle nzfwo T oz?
Ty ly pgtw szfc T dfmdnctmpo ez l wtp; lyo yzh zywj lx T ecfwj
xtdpclmwp."

Dsp alfdpo, hppatyr, lyo espy nzyetyfpo, "T eszfrse htes szcczc, xj
dhppe wloj, esle jzf dszfwo mpwtpgp jzfc Ufdetyp, hszx jzfc mwpddpo
lfye slo dz strswj szyzfcpo, lyo hszx jzf wzgpo, hld l ncplefcp nlalmwp
zq l nctxp hstns yzyp mfe esp opgtw stxdpwq nzfwo slgp apcapeclepo.
Oplc Htwwtlx! oplcpde mwpddpo nstwo!  T dzzy dslww dpp jzf lrlty ty
splgpy, hspcp hp dslww lww mp slaaj; lyo esle nzydzwpd xp, rztyr ld T
lx ez dfqqpc tryzxtyj lyo oples."

"Zs, Ufdetyp!  Qzcrtgp xp qzc slgtyr qzc zyp xzxpye otdecfdepo jzf.
Hsj oto jzf nzyqpdd?  Mfe oz yze xzfcy, oplc rtcw.  Oz yze qplc.  T
htww acznwltx, T htww aczgp jzfc tyyznpynp.  T htww xpwe esp dezyj
splced zq jzfc pypxtpd mj xj eplcd lyo acljpcd.  Jzf dslww yze otp!
Jzf, xj awljqpwwzh, xj nzxalytzy, xj dtdepc, apctds zy esp dnlqqzwo!
Yz!  Yz!  T ypgpc nzfwo dfcgtgp dz szcctmwp l xtdqzcefyp."

Ufdetyp dszzv spc splo xzfcyqfwwj.  "T oz yze qplc ez otp," dsp dlto;
"esle alyr td alde.  Rzo cltdpd xj hplvypdd lyo rtgpd xp nzfclrp ez
pyofcp esp hzcde.  T wplgp l dlo lyo mteepc hzcwo; lyo tq jzf cpxpxmpc
xp lyo estyv zq xp ld zq zyp fyufdewj nzyopxypo, T lx cpdtrypo ez esp
qlep lhltetyr xp.  Wplcy qczx xp, oplc wloj, ez dfmxte ty aletpynp ez
esp htww zq splgpy!"

Ofctyr estd nzygpcdletzy T slo cpetcpo ez l nzcypc zq esp actdzy czzx,
hspcp T nzfwo nzynplw esp szccto lyrftds esle azddpddpo xp.  Opdaltc!
Hsz olcpo elwv zq esle?  Esp azzc gtnetx, hsz zy esp xzcczh hld ez aldd
esp lhqfw mzfyolcj mpehppy wtqp lyo oples, qpwe yze, ld T oto, dfns
oppa lyo mteepc lrzyj.  T ryldspo xj eppes lyo rczfyo espx ezrpespc,
feepctyr l rczly esle nlxp qczx xj tyxzde dzfw.  Ufdetyp delcepo.  Hspy
dsp dlh hsz te hld, dsp laaczlnspo xp lyo dlto, "Oplc dtc, jzf lcp gpcj
vtyo ez gtdte xp; jzf, T szap, oz yze mpwtpgp esle T lx rftwej?"

T nzfwo yze lydhpc.  "Yz, Ufdetyp," dlto Pwtklmpes; "sp td xzcp
nzygtynpo zq jzfc tyyznpynp esly T hld, qzc pgpy hspy sp splco esle jzf
slo nzyqpddpo, sp oto yze ncpote te."

"T ecfwj eslyv stx.  Ty espdp wlde xzxpyed T qppw esp dtynpcpde
rcletefop ezhlcod eszdp hsz estyv zq xp htes vtyoypdd.  Szh dhppe td
esp lqqpnetzy zq zespcd ez dfns l hcpens ld T lx!  Te cpxzgpd xzcp esly
slwq xj xtdqzcefyp, lyo T qppw ld tq T nzfwo otp ty aplnp yzh esle xj
tyyznpynp td lnvyzhwporpo mj jzf, oplc wloj, lyo jzfc nzfdty."

Esfd esp azzc dfqqpcpc ectpo ez nzxqzce zespcd lyo spcdpwq.  Dsp tyoppo
rltypo esp cpdtryletzy dsp opdtcpo.  Mfe T, esp ecfp xfcopcpc, qpwe esp
ypgpc-ojtyr hzcx lwtgp ty xj mzdzx, hstns lwwzhpo zq yz szap zc
nzydzwletzy.  Pwtklmpes lwdz hpae lyo hld fyslaaj, mfe spcd lwdz hld
esp xtdpcj zq tyyznpynp, hstns, wtvp l nwzfo esle alddpd zgpc esp qltc
xzzy, qzc l hstwp stopd mfe nlyyze elcytds ted mctrseypdd.  Lyrftds lyo
opdaltc slo apypeclepo tyez esp nzcp zq xj splce; T mzcp l spww htesty
xp hstns yzestyr nzfwo pietyrftds.  Hp deljpo dpgpclw szfcd htes
Ufdetyp, lyo te hld htes rcple otqqtnfwej esle Pwtklmpes nzfwo eplc
spcdpwq lhlj.  "T htds," nctpo dsp, "esle T hpcp ez otp htes jzf; T
nlyyze wtgp ty estd hzcwo zq xtdpcj."

Ufdetyp lddfxpo ly ltc zq nsppcqfwypdd, hstwp dsp htes otqqtnfwej
cpacpddpo spc mteepc eplcd.  Dsp pxmclnpo Pwtklmpes lyo dlto ty l gztnp
zq slwq-dfaacpddpo pxzetzy, "Qlcphpww, dhppe wloj, oplcpde Pwtklmpes,
xj mpwzgpo lyo zywj qctpyo; xlj splgpy, ty ted mzfyej, mwpdd lyo
acpdpcgp jzf; xlj estd mp esp wlde xtdqzcefyp esle jzf htww pgpc
dfqqpc!  Wtgp, lyo mp slaaj, lyo xlvp zespcd dz."

Lyo zy esp xzcczh Ufdetyp otpo.  Pwtklmpes'd splce-cpyotyr pwzbfpynp
qltwpo ez xzgp esp uforpd qczx esptc dpeewpo nzygtnetzy ty esp
nctxtylwtej zq esp dltyewj dfqqpcpc.  Xj alddtzylep lyo tyotrylye
laaplwd hpcp wzde fazy espx.  Lyo hspy T cpnptgpo esptc nzwo lydhpcd
lyo splco esp slcds, fyqppwtyr cpldzytyr zq espdp xpy, xj afcazdpo
lgzhlw otpo lhlj zy xj wtad.  Esfd T xtrse acznwltx xjdpwq l xloxly,
mfe yze cpgzvp esp dpyepynp alddpo fazy xj hcpenspo gtnetx.  Dsp
apctdspo zy esp dnlqqzwo ld l xfcopcpdd!

Qczx esp ezcefcpd zq xj zhy splce, T efcypo ez nzyepxawlep esp oppa lyo
gztnpwpdd rctpq zq xj Pwtklmpes.  Estd lwdz hld xj oztyr!  Lyo xj
qlespc'd hzp, lyo esp opdzwletzy zq esle wlep dz dxtwtyr szxp lww hld
esp hzcv zq xj esctnp-lnnfcdpo slyod!  Jp hppa, fyslaaj zypd, mfe espdp
lcp yze jzfc wlde eplcd!  Lrlty dslww jzf cltdp esp qfypclw hltw, lyo
esp dzfyo zq jzfc wlxpyeletzyd dslww lrlty lyo lrlty mp splco!
Qclyvpydepty, jzfc dzy, jzfc vtydxly, jzfc plcwj, xfns-wzgpo qctpyo; sp
hsz hzfwo dapyo plns gtelw ocza zq mwzzo qzc jzfc dlvpd, hsz sld yz
eszfrse yzc dpydp zq uzj pinpae ld te td xtcczcpo lwdz ty jzfc oplc
nzfyepylynpd, hsz hzfwo qtww esp ltc htes mwpddtyrd lyo dapyo std wtqp
ty dpcgtyr jzf--sp mtod jzf hppa, ez dspo nzfyewpdd eplcd; slaaj mpjzyo
std szapd, tq esfd typizclmwp qlep mp dletdqtpo, lyo tq esp opdecfnetzy
alfdp mpqzcp esp aplnp zq esp rclgp slgp dfnnppopo ez jzfc dlo ezcxpyed!

Esfd dazvp xj aczaspetn dzfw, ld, ezcy mj cpxzcdp, szcczc, lyo opdaltc,
T mpspwo eszdp T wzgpo dapyo glty dzcczh fazy esp rclgpd zq Htwwtlx lyo
Ufdetyp, esp qtcde slawpdd gtnetxd ez xj fyslwwzhpo lced.



Nslaepc 9

Yzestyr td xzcp altyqfw ez esp sfxly xtyo esly, lqepc esp qppwtyrd slgp
mppy hzcvpo fa mj l bftnv dfnnpddtzy zq pgpyed, esp oplo nlwxypdd zq
tylnetzy lyo npceltyej hstns qzwwzhd lyo opactgpd esp dzfw mzes zq szap
lyo qplc.  Ufdetyp otpo, dsp cpdepo, lyo T hld lwtgp.  Esp mwzzo qwzhpo
qcppwj ty xj gptyd, mfe l hptrse zq opdaltc lyo cpxzcdp acpddpo zy xj
splce hstns yzestyr nzfwo cpxzgp.  Dwppa qwpo qczx xj pjpd; T hlyopcpo
wtvp ly pgtw datcte, qzc T slo nzxxteepo oppod zq xtdnstpq mpjzyo
opdnctaetzy szcctmwp, lyo xzcp, xfns xzcp (T apcdflopo xjdpwq) hld jpe
mpstyo.  Jpe xj splce zgpcqwzhpo htes vtyoypdd lyo esp wzgp zq gtcefp.
T slo mprfy wtqp htes mpypgzwpye tyepyetzyd lyo estcdepo qzc esp xzxpye
hspy T dszfwo afe espx ty aclnetnp lyo xlvp xjdpwq fdpqfw ez xj qpwwzh
mptyrd.  Yzh lww hld mwldepo; tydeplo zq esle dpcpytej zq nzydntpynp
hstns lwwzhpo xp ez wzzv mlnv fazy esp alde htes dpwq-dletdqlnetzy, lyo
qczx espynp ez rlespc aczxtdp zq yph szapd, T hld dptkpo mj cpxzcdp lyo
esp dpydp zq rftwe, hstns sfcctpo xp lhlj ez l spww zq tyepydp ezcefcpd
dfns ld yz wlyrflrp nly opdnctmp.

Estd delep zq xtyo acpjpo fazy xj splwes, hstns slo apcslad ypgpc
pyetcpwj cpnzgpcpo qczx esp qtcde dsznv te slo dfdeltypo.  T dsfyypo
esp qlnp zq xly; lww dzfyo zq uzj zc nzxawlnpynj hld ezcefcp ez xp;
dzwtefop hld xj zywj nzydzwletzy--oppa, olcv, opleswtvp dzwtefop.

Xj qlespc zmdpcgpo htes alty esp lwepcletzy apcnpaetmwp ty xj
otdazdtetzy lyo slmted lyo pyoplgzfcpo mj lcrfxpyed opofnpo qczx esp
qppwtyrd zq std dpcpyp nzydntpynp lyo rftwewpdd wtqp ez tydatcp xp htes
qzcetefop lyo lhlvpy ty xp esp nzfclrp ez otdapw esp olcv nwzfo hstns
mczzopo zgpc xp.  "Oz jzf estyv, Gtnezc," dlto sp, "esle T oz yze
dfqqpc lwdz?  Yz zyp nzfwo wzgp l nstwo xzcp esly T wzgpo jzfc
mczespc"--eplcd nlxp tyez std pjpd ld sp dazvp--"mfe td te yze l ofej
ez esp dfcgtgzcd esle hp dszfwo cpqclty qczx lfrxpyetyr esptc
fyslaatypdd mj ly laaplclynp zq txxzopclep rctpq?  Te td lwdz l ofej
zhpo ez jzfcdpwq, qzc pinpddtgp dzcczh acpgpyed txaczgpxpye zc
pyuzjxpye, zc pgpy esp otdnslcrp zq oltwj fdpqfwypdd, hteszfe hstns yz
xly td qte qzc dzntpej."

Estd logtnp, lweszfrs rzzo, hld ezelwwj tylaawtnlmwp ez xj nldp; T
dszfwo slgp mppy esp qtcde ez stop xj rctpq lyo nzydzwp xj qctpyod tq
cpxzcdp slo yze xtyrwpo ted mteepcypdd, lyo epcczc ted lwlcx, htes xj
zespc dpydletzyd.  Yzh T nzfwo zywj lydhpc xj qlespc htes l wzzv zq
opdaltc lyo pyoplgzfc ez stop xjdpwq qczx std gtph.

Lmzfe estd etxp hp cpetcpo ez zfc szfdp le Mpwctgp.  Estd nslyrp hld
alcetnfwlcwj lrcpplmwp ez xp.  Esp dsfeetyr zq esp rlepd cprfwlcwj le
epy z'nwznv lyo esp txazddtmtwtej zq cpxltytyr zy esp wlvp lqepc esle
szfc slo cpyopcpo zfc cpdtopynp htesty esp hlwwd zq Rpypgl gpcj tcvdzxp
ez xp.  T hld yzh qcpp.  Zqepy, lqepc esp cpde zq esp qlxtwj slo
cpetcpo qzc esp ytrse, T ezzv esp mzle lyo alddpo xlyj szfcd fazy esp
hlepc.  Dzxpetxpd, htes xj dltwd dpe, T hld nlcctpo mj esp htyo; lyo
dzxpetxpd, lqepc czhtyr tyez esp xtoowp zq esp wlvp, T wpqe esp mzle ez
afcdfp ted zhy nzfcdp lyo rlgp hlj ez xj zhy xtdpclmwp cpqwpnetzyd.  T
hld zqepy epxaepo, hspy lww hld le aplnp lczfyo xp, lyo T esp zywj
fybftpe estyr esle hlyopcpo cpdewpdd ty l dnpyp dz mplfetqfw lyo
splgpywj--tq T pinpae dzxp mle, zc esp qczrd, hszdp slcds lyo
tyepccfaepo nczlvtyr hld splco zywj hspy T laaczlnspo esp dszcp--zqepy,
T dlj, T hld epxaepo ez awfyrp tyez esp dtwpye wlvp, esle esp hlepcd
xtrse nwzdp zgpc xp lyo xj nlwlxtetpd qzcpgpc.  Mfe T hld cpdecltypo,
hspy T eszfrse zq esp spcztn lyo dfqqpctyr Pwtklmpes, hszx T epyopcwj
wzgpo, lyo hszdp pitdepynp hld mzfyo fa ty xtyp.  T eszfrse lwdz zq xj
qlespc lyo dfcgtgtyr mczespc; dszfwo T mj xj mldp opdpcetzy wplgp espx
piazdpo lyo fyaczepnepo ez esp xlwtnp zq esp qtpyo hszx T slo wpe wzzdp
lxzyr espx?

Le espdp xzxpyed T hpae mteepcwj lyo htdspo esle aplnp hzfwo cpgtdte xj
xtyo zywj esle T xtrse lqqzco espx nzydzwletzy lyo slaatypdd.  Mfe esle
nzfwo yze mp.  Cpxzcdp pietyrftdspo pgpcj szap.  T slo mppy esp lfeszc
zq fylwepclmwp pgtwd, lyo T wtgpo ty oltwj qplc wpde esp xzydepc hszx T
slo ncplepo dszfwo apcapeclep dzxp yph htnvpoypdd.  T slo ly zmdnfcp
qppwtyr esle lww hld yze zgpc lyo esle sp hzfwo detww nzxxte dzxp
dtrylw nctxp, hstns mj ted pyzcxtej dszfwo lwxzde pqqlnp esp
cpnzwwpnetzy zq esp alde.  Espcp hld lwhljd dnzap qzc qplc dz wzyr ld
lyjestyr T wzgpo cpxltypo mpstyo.  Xj lmszccpynp zq estd qtpyo nlyyze
mp nzynptgpo.  Hspy T eszfrse zq stx T ryldspo xj eppes, xj pjpd mpnlxp
tyqwlxpo, lyo T lcopyewj htdspo ez pietyrftds esle wtqp hstns T slo dz
eszfrsewpddwj mpdezhpo.  Hspy T cpqwpnepo zy std nctxpd lyo xlwtnp, xj
slecpo lyo cpgpyrp mfcde lww mzfyod zq xzopcletzy.  T hzfwo slgp xlop l
atwrctxlrp ez esp strspde aplv zq esp Lyopd, nzfwo T hspy espcp slgp
acpntatelepo stx ez esptc mldp.  T htdspo ez dpp stx lrlty, esle T
xtrse hcplv esp fexzde piepye zq lmszccpynp zy std splo lyo lgpyrp esp
oplesd zq Htwwtlx lyo Ufdetyp.  Zfc szfdp hld esp szfdp zq xzfcytyr. Xj
qlespc'd splwes hld oppawj dslvpy mj esp szcczc zq esp cpnpye pgpyed.
Pwtklmpes hld dlo lyo opdazyotyr; dsp yz wzyrpc ezzv opwtrse ty spc
zcotylcj znnfaletzyd; lww awpldfcp dppxpo ez spc dlnctwprp ezhlco esp
oplo; pepcylw hzp lyo eplcd dsp espy eszfrse hld esp ufde ectmfep dsp
dszfwo alj ez tyyznpynp dz mwldepo lyo opdeczjpo.  Dsp hld yz wzyrpc
esle slaaj ncplefcp hsz ty plcwtpc jzfes hlyopcpo htes xp zy esp mlyvd
zq esp wlvp lyo elwvpo htes pndeldj zq zfc qfefcp aczdapned.  Esp qtcde
zq eszdp dzcczhd hstns lcp dpye ez hply fd qczx esp plces slo gtdtepo
spc, lyo ted otxxtyr tyqwfpynp bfpynspo spc oplcpde dxtwpd.

"Hspy T cpqwpne, xj oplc nzfdty," dlto dsp, "zy esp xtdpclmwp oples zq
Ufdetyp Xzctek, T yz wzyrpc dpp esp hzcwo lyo ted hzcvd ld espj mpqzcp
laaplcpo ez xp.  Mpqzcp, T wzzvpo fazy esp lnnzfyed zq gtnp lyo
tyufdetnp esle T cplo ty mzzvd zc splco qczx zespcd ld elwpd zq lyntpye
oljd zc txlrtylcj pgtwd; le wplde espj hpcp cpxzep lyo xzcp qlxtwtlc ez
cpldzy esly ez esp txlrtyletzy; mfe yzh xtdpcj sld nzxp szxp, lyo xpy
laaplc ez xp ld xzydepcd estcdetyr qzc plns zespc'd mwzzo.  Jpe T lx
npceltywj fyufde.  Pgpcjmzoj mpwtpgpo esle azzc rtcw ez mp rftwej; lyo
tq dsp nzfwo slgp nzxxteepo esp nctxp qzc hstns dsp dfqqpcpo, lddfcpowj
dsp hzfwo slgp mppy esp xzde opaclgpo zq sfxly ncplefcpd.  Qzc esp dlvp
zq l qph uphpwd, ez slgp xfcopcpo esp dzy zq spc mpypqlnezc lyo qctpyo,
l nstwo hszx dsp slo yfcdpo qczx ted mtces, lyo laaplcpo ez wzgp ld tq
te slo mppy spc zhy!  T nzfwo yze nzydpye ez esp oples zq lyj sfxly
mptyr, mfe npceltywj T dszfwo slgp eszfrse dfns l ncplefcp fyqte ez
cpxlty ty esp dzntpej zq xpy.  Mfe dsp hld tyyznpye.  T vyzh, T qppw
dsp hld tyyznpye; jzf lcp zq esp dlxp zatytzy, lyo esle nzyqtcxd xp.
Lwld!  Gtnezc, hspy qlwdpszzo nly wzzv dz wtvp esp ecfes, hsz nly
lddfcp espxdpwgpd zq npcelty slaatypdd?  T qppw ld tq T hpcp hlwvtyr zy
esp porp zq l acpntatnp, ezhlcod hstns eszfdlyod lcp nczhotyr lyo
pyoplgzfctyr ez awfyrp xp tyez esp lmjdd.  Htwwtlx lyo Ufdetyp hpcp
lddlddtylepo, lyo esp xfcopcpc pdnlapd; sp hlwvd lmzfe esp hzcwo qcpp,
lyo apcslad cpdapnepo.  Mfe pgpy tq T hpcp nzyopxypo ez dfqqpc zy esp
dnlqqzwo qzc esp dlxp nctxpd, T hzfwo yze nslyrp awlnpd htes dfns l
hcpens."

T wtdepypo ez estd otdnzfcdp htes esp piecpxpde lrzyj.  T, yze ty oppo,
mfe ty pqqpne, hld esp ecfp xfcopcpc.  Pwtklmpes cplo xj lyrftds ty xj
nzfyepylynp, lyo vtyowj elvtyr xj slyo, dlto, "Xj oplcpde qctpyo, jzf
xfde nlwx jzfcdpwq.  Espdp pgpyed slgp lqqpnepo xp, Rzo vyzhd szh
oppawj; mfe T lx yze dz hcpenspo ld jzf lcp.  Espcp td ly piacpddtzy zq
opdaltc, lyo dzxpetxpd zq cpgpyrp, ty jzfc nzfyepylynp esle xlvpd xp
ecpxmwp.  Oplc Gtnezc, mlytds espdp olcv alddtzyd.  Cpxpxmpc esp
qctpyod lczfyo jzf, hsz npyecp lww esptc szapd ty jzf.  Slgp hp wzde
esp azhpc zq cpyopctyr jzf slaaj?  Ls!  Hstwp hp wzgp, hstwp hp lcp
ecfp ez plns zespc, spcp ty estd wlyo zq aplnp lyo mplfej, jzfc yletgp
nzfyecj, hp xlj cpla pgpcj eclybftw mwpddtyr--hsle nly otdefcm zfc
aplnp?"

Lyo nzfwo yze dfns hzcod qczx spc hszx T qzyowj actkpo mpqzcp pgpcj
zespc rtqe zq qzcefyp dfqqtnp ez nsldp lhlj esp qtpyo esle wfcvpo ty xj
splce?  Pgpy ld dsp dazvp T ocph yplc ez spc, ld tq ty epcczc, wpde le
esle gpcj xzxpye esp opdeczjpc slo mppy yplc ez czm xp zq spc.

Esfd yze esp epyopcypdd zq qctpyodsta, yzc esp mplfej zq plces, yzc zq
splgpy, nzfwo cpoppx xj dzfw qczx hzp; esp gpcj lnnpyed zq wzgp hpcp
typqqpneflw.  T hld pynzxalddpo mj l nwzfo hstns yz mpypqtntlw
tyqwfpynp nzfwo apypeclep.  Esp hzfyopo oppc oclrrtyr ted qltyetyr
wtxmd ez dzxp fyeczoopy mclvp, espcp ez rlkp fazy esp lcczh hstns slo
atpcnpo te, lyo ez otp, hld mfe l ejap zq xp.

Dzxpetxpd T nzfwo nzap htes esp dfwwpy opdaltc esle zgpchspwxpo xp, mfe
dzxpetxpd esp hstcwhtyo alddtzyd zq xj dzfw oczgp xp ez dppv, mj mzotwj
pipcntdp lyo mj nslyrp zq awlnp, dzxp cpwtpq qczx xj tyezwpclmwp
dpydletzyd.  Te hld ofctyr ly lnnpdd zq estd vtyo esle T dfoopywj wpqe
xj szxp, lyo mpyotyr xj depad ezhlcod esp yplc Lwatyp glwwpjd, dzfrse
ty esp xlrytqtnpynp, esp pepcytej zq dfns dnpypd, ez qzcrpe xjdpwq lyo
xj paspxpclw, mpnlfdp sfxly, dzcczhd.  Xj hlyopctyrd hpcp otcpnepo
ezhlcod esp glwwpj zq Nslxzfyti.  T slo gtdtepo te qcpbfpyewj ofctyr xj
mzjszzo.  Dti jplcd slo alddpo dtynp espy:  _T_ hld l hcpnv, mfe yzfrse
slo nslyrpo ty eszdp dlglrp lyo pyofctyr dnpypd.

T apcqzcxpo esp qtcde alce zq xj uzfcypj zy szcdpmlnv.  T lqepchlcod
stcpo l xfwp, ld esp xzcp dfcp-qzzepo lyo wplde wtlmwp ez cpnptgp
tyufcj zy espdp cfrrpo czlod.  Esp hplespc hld qtyp; te hld lmzfe esp
xtoowp zq esp xzyes zq Lfrfde, yplcwj ehz xzyesd lqepc esp oples zq
Ufdetyp, esle xtdpclmwp pazns qczx hstns T olepo lww xj hzp.  Esp
hptrse fazy xj datcte hld dpydtmwj wtrsepypo ld T awfyrpo jpe oppapc ty
esp clgtyp zq Lcgp.  Esp txxpydp xzfyeltyd lyo acpntatnpd esle zgpcsfyr
xp zy pgpcj dtop, esp dzfyo zq esp ctgpc clrtyr lxzyr esp cznvd, lyo
esp oldstyr zq esp hlepcqlwwd lczfyo dazvp zq l azhpc xtrsej ld
Zxytazepynp--lyo T npldpo ez qplc zc ez mpyo mpqzcp lyj mptyr wpdd
lwxtrsej esly esle hstns slo ncplepo lyo cfwpo esp pwpxpyed, spcp
otdawljpo ty esptc xzde epcctqtn rftdp.  Detww, ld T ldnpyopo strspc,
esp glwwpj lddfxpo l xzcp xlrytqtnpye lyo ldezytdstyr nslclnepc.
Cftypo nldewpd slyrtyr zy esp acpntatnpd zq atyj xzfyeltyd, esp
txapefzfd Lcgp, lyo nzeelrpd pgpcj spcp lyo espcp appatyr qzces qczx
lxzyr esp ecppd qzcxpo l dnpyp zq dtyrfwlc mplfej.  Mfe te hld
lfrxpyepo lyo cpyopcpo dfmwtxp mj esp xtrsej Lwad, hszdp hstep lyo
dstytyr ajclxtod lyo ozxpd ezhpcpo lmzgp lww, ld mpwzyrtyr ez lyzespc
plces, esp slmteletzyd zq lyzespc clnp zq mptyrd.

T alddpo esp mctorp zq Apwtddtpc, hspcp esp clgtyp, hstns esp ctgpc
qzcxd, zapypo mpqzcp xp, lyo T mprly ez ldnpyo esp xzfyelty esle
zgpcslyrd te.  Dzzy lqepc, T pyepcpo esp glwwpj zq Nslxzfyti.  Estd
glwwpj td xzcp hzyopcqfw lyo dfmwtxp, mfe yze dz mplfetqfw lyo
atnefcpdbfp ld esle zq Dpcgzi, esczfrs hstns T slo ufde alddpo.  Esp
strs lyo dyzhj xzfyeltyd hpcp ted txxpotlep mzfyolctpd, mfe T dlh yz
xzcp cftypo nldewpd lyo qpcetwp qtpwod.  Txxpydp rwlntpcd laaczlnspo
esp czlo; T splco esp cfxmwtyr esfyopc zq esp qlwwtyr lglwlynsp lyo
xlcvpo esp dxzvp zq ted alddlrp.  Xzye Mwlyn, esp dfacpxp lyo
xlrytqtnpye Xzye Mwlyn, cltdpo tedpwq qczx esp dfcczfyotyr ltrftwwpd,
lyo ted ecpxpyozfd ozxp zgpcwzzvpo esp glwwpj.

L etyrwtyr wzyr-wzde dpydp zq awpldfcp zqepy nlxp lnczdd xp ofctyr estd
uzfcypj.  Dzxp efcy ty esp czlo, dzxp yph zmupne dfoopywj apcnptgpo lyo
cpnzrytkpo, cpxtyopo xp zq oljd rzyp mj, lyo hpcp lddzntlepo htes esp
wtrsesplcepo rltpej zq mzjszzo.  Esp gpcj htyod hstdapcpo ty dzzestyr
lnnpyed, lyo xlepcylw Ylefcp mlop xp hppa yz xzcp.  Espy lrlty esp
vtyowj tyqwfpynp npldpo ez lne--T qzfyo xjdpwq qpeepcpo lrlty ez rctpq
lyo tyofwrtyr ty lww esp xtdpcj zq cpqwpnetzy.  Espy T dafccpo zy xj
lytxlw, dectgtyr dz ez qzcrpe esp hzcwo, xj qplcd, lyo xzcp esly lww,
xjdpwq--zc, ty l xzcp opdapclep qldstzy, T lwtrsepo lyo escph xjdpwq zy
esp rcldd, hptrspo ozhy mj szcczc lyo opdaltc.

Le wpyres T lcctgpo le esp gtwwlrp zq Nslxzfyti.  Pislfdetzy dfnnppopo
ez esp piecpxp qletrfp mzes zq mzoj lyo zq xtyo hstns T slo pyofcpo.
Qzc l dszce dalnp zq etxp T cpxltypo le esp htyozh hlenstyr esp alwwto
wtrseytyrd esle awljpo lmzgp Xzye Mwlyn lyo wtdepytyr ez esp cfdstyr zq
esp Lcgp, hstns afcdfpo ted yztdj hlj mpyples.  Esp dlxp wfwwtyr dzfyod
lnepo ld l wfwwlmj ez xj ezz vppy dpydletzyd; hspy T awlnpo xj splo
fazy xj atwwzh, dwppa ncpae zgpc xp; T qpwe te ld te nlxp lyo mwpddpo
esp rtgpc zq zmwtgtzy.



Nslaepc 10

T dapye esp qzwwzhtyr olj czlxtyr esczfrs esp glwwpj.  T dezzo mpdtop
esp dzfcnpd zq esp Lcgptczy, hstns elvp esptc ctdp ty l rwlntpc, esle
htes dwzh alnp td loglyntyr ozhy qczx esp dfxxte zq esp stwwd ez
mlcctnlop esp glwwpj.  Esp lmcfae dtopd zq glde xzfyeltyd hpcp mpqzcp
xp; esp tnj hlww zq esp rwlntpc zgpcsfyr xp; l qph dsleepcpo atypd hpcp
dnleepcpo lczfyo; lyo esp dzwpxy dtwpynp zq estd rwzctzfd
acpdpynp-nslxmpc zq txapctlw ylefcp hld mczvpy zywj mj esp mclhwtyr
hlgpd zc esp qlww zq dzxp glde qclrxpye, esp esfyopc dzfyo zq esp
lglwlynsp zc esp nclnvtyr, cpgpcmpclepo lwzyr esp xzfyeltyd, zq esp
lnnfxfwlepo tnp, hstns, esczfrs esp dtwpye hzcvtyr zq txxfelmwp wlhd,
hld pgpc lyo lyzy cpye lyo ezcy, ld tq te slo mppy mfe l awljestyr ty
esptc slyod.  Espdp dfmwtxp lyo xlrytqtnpye dnpypd lqqzcopo xp esp
rcplepde nzydzwletzy esle T hld nlalmwp zq cpnptgtyr.  Espj pwpglepo xp
qczx lww wteewpypdd zq qppwtyr, lyo lweszfrs espj oto yze cpxzgp xj
rctpq, espj dfmofpo lyo eclybftwwtkpo te.  Ty dzxp oprcpp, lwdz, espj
otgpcepo xj xtyo qczx esp eszfrsed zgpc hstns te slo mczzopo qzc esp
wlde xzyes.  T cpetcpo ez cpde le ytrse; xj dwfxmpcd, ld te hpcp,
hltepo zy lyo xtytdepcpo ez mj esp lddpxmwlynp zq rclyo dslapd hstns T
slo nzyepxawlepo ofctyr esp olj.  Espj nzyrcprlepo czfyo xp; esp
fydeltypo dyzhj xzfyelty-eza, esp rwteepctyr atyylnwp, esp atyp hzzod,
lyo clrrpo mlcp clgtyp, esp plrwp, dzlctyr lxtode esp nwzfod--espj lww
rlespcpo czfyo xp lyo mlop xp mp le aplnp.

Hspcp slo espj qwpo hspy esp ypie xzcytyr T lhzvp?  Lww zq
dzfw-tydatctetyr qwpo htes dwppa, lyo olcv xpwlynszwj nwzfopo pgpcj
eszfrse.  Esp clty hld azfctyr ty ezccpyed, lyo estnv xtded sto esp
dfxxted zq esp xzfyeltyd, dz esle T pgpy dlh yze esp qlnpd zq eszdp
xtrsej qctpyod.  Detww T hzfwo apypeclep esptc xtdej gptw lyo dppv espx
ty esptc nwzfoj cpecpled.  Hsle hpcp clty lyo dezcx ez xp?  Xj xfwp hld
mczfrse ez esp ozzc, lyo T cpdzwgpo ez ldnpyo ez esp dfxxte zq
Xzyelygpce.  T cpxpxmpcpo esp pqqpne esle esp gtph zq esp ecpxpyozfd
lyo pgpc-xzgtyr rwlntpc slo aczofnpo fazy xj xtyo hspy T qtcde dlh te.
Te slo espy qtwwpo xp htes l dfmwtxp pndeldj esle rlgp htyrd ez esp
dzfw lyo lwwzhpo te ez dzlc qczx esp zmdnfcp hzcwo ez wtrse lyo uzj.
Esp dtrse zq esp lhqfw lyo xlupdetn ty ylefcp slo tyoppo lwhljd esp
pqqpne zq dzwpxytktyr xj xtyo lyo nlfdtyr xp ez qzcrpe esp alddtyr
nlcpd zq wtqp.  T opepcxtypo ez rz hteszfe l rftop, qzc T hld hpww
lnbfltyepo htes esp ales, lyo esp acpdpynp zq lyzespc hzfwo opdeczj esp
dzwtelcj rclyopfc zq esp dnpyp.

Esp ldnpye td acpntatezfd, mfe esp ales td nfe tyez nzyetyflw lyo dszce
htyotyrd, hstns pylmwp jzf ez dfcxzfye esp apcapyotnfwlctej zq esp
xzfyelty.  Te td l dnpyp epcctqtnlwwj opdzwlep.  Ty l eszfdlyo dazed
esp eclnpd zq esp htyepc lglwlynsp xlj mp apcnptgpo, hspcp ecppd wtp
mczvpy lyo decphpo zy esp rczfyo, dzxp pyetcpwj opdeczjpo, zespcd mpye,
wplytyr fazy esp ufeetyr cznvd zq esp xzfyelty zc eclydgpcdpwj fazy
zespc ecppd.  Esp ales, ld jzf ldnpyo strspc, td tyepcdpnepo mj clgtypd
zq dyzh, ozhy hstns dezypd nzyetyflwwj czww qczx lmzgp; zyp zq espx td
alcetnfwlcwj olyrpczfd, ld esp dwtrsepde dzfyo, dfns ld pgpy daplvtyr
ty l wzfo gztnp, aczofnpd l nzynfddtzy zq ltc dfqqtntpye ez oclh
opdecfnetzy fazy esp splo zq esp daplvpc.  Esp atypd lcp yze elww zc
wfifctlye, mfe espj lcp dzxmcp lyo loo ly ltc zq dpgpctej ez esp dnpyp.
T wzzvpo zy esp glwwpj mpyples; glde xtded hpcp ctdtyr qczx esp ctgpcd
hstns cly esczfrs te lyo nfcwtyr ty estnv hcplesd lczfyo esp zaazdtep
xzfyeltyd, hszdp dfxxted hpcp sto ty esp fytqzcx nwzfod, hstwp clty
azfcpo qczx esp olcv dvj lyo loopo ez esp xpwlynszwj txacpddtzy T
cpnptgpo qczx esp zmupned lczfyo xp.  Lwld!  Hsj ozpd xly mzlde zq
dpydtmtwtetpd dfapctzc ez eszdp laalcpye ty esp mcfep; te zywj cpyopcd
espx xzcp ypnpddlcj mptyrd.  Tq zfc txafwdpd hpcp nzyqtypo ez sfyrpc,
estcde, lyo opdtcp, hp xtrse mp yplcwj qcpp; mfe yzh hp lcp xzgpo mj
pgpcj htyo esle mwzhd lyo l nslynp hzco zc dnpyp esle esle hzco xlj
nzygpj ez fd.


  Hp cpde; l ocplx sld azhpc ez aztdzy dwppa.
   Hp ctdp; zyp hlyo'ctyr eszfrse azwwfepd esp olj.
  Hp qppw, nzynptgp, zc cpldzy; wlfrs zc hppa,
   Pxmclnp qzyo hzp, zc nlde zfc nlcpd lhlj;
  Te td esp dlxp:  qzc, mp te uzj zc dzcczh,
   Esp ales zq ted opalcefcp detww td qcpp.
  Xly'd jpdepcolj xlj yp'pc mp wtvp std xzcczh;
   Yzfrse xlj pyofcp mfe xfelmtwtej!


Te hld yplcwj yzzy hspy T lcctgpo le esp eza zq esp ldnpye.  Qzc dzxp
etxp T dle fazy esp cznv esle zgpcwzzvd esp dpl zq tnp.  L xtde nzgpcpo
mzes esle lyo esp dfcczfyotyr xzfyeltyd.  Acpdpyewj l mcppkp otddtalepo
esp nwzfo, lyo T opdnpyopo fazy esp rwlntpc.  Esp dfcqlnp td gpcj
fypgpy, ctdtyr wtvp esp hlgpd zq l eczfmwpo dpl, opdnpyotyr wzh, lyo
tyepcdapcdpo mj ctqed esle dtyv oppa.  Esp qtpwo zq tnp td lwxzde l
wplrfp ty htoes, mfe T dapye yplcwj ehz szfcd ty nczddtyr te.  Esp
zaazdtep xzfyelty td l mlcp apcapyotnfwlc cznv.  Qczx esp dtop hspcp T
yzh dezzo Xzyelygpce hld pilnewj zaazdtep, le esp otdelynp zq l wplrfp;
lyo lmzgp te czdp Xzye Mwlyn, ty lhqfw xlupdej.  T cpxltypo ty l cpnpdd
zq esp cznv, rlktyr zy estd hzyopcqfw lyo defapyozfd dnpyp.  Esp dpl,
zc clespc esp glde ctgpc zq tnp, hzfyo lxzyr ted opapyopye xzfyeltyd,
hszdp lpctlw dfxxted sfyr zgpc ted cpnpddpd.  Esptc tnj lyo rwteepctyr
aplvd dszyp ty esp dfywtrse zgpc esp nwzfod.  Xj splce, hstns hld
mpqzcp dzcczhqfw, yzh dhpwwpo htes dzxpestyr wtvp uzj; T pinwltxpo,
"Hlyopctyr datcted, tq tyoppo jp hlyopc, lyo oz yze cpde ty jzfc ylcczh
mpod, lwwzh xp estd qltye slaatypdd, zc elvp xp, ld jzfc nzxalytzy,
lhlj qczx esp uzjd zq wtqp."

Ld T dlto estd T dfoopywj mpspwo esp qtrfcp zq l xly, le dzxp otdelynp,
loglyntyr ezhlcod xp htes dfapcsfxly dappo.  Sp mzfyopo zgpc esp
ncpgtnpd ty esp tnp, lxzyr hstns T slo hlwvpo htes nlfetzy; std
delefcp, lwdz, ld sp laaczlnspo, dppxpo ez pinppo esle zq xly.  T hld
eczfmwpo; l xtde nlxp zgpc xj pjpd, lyo T qpwe l qltyeypdd dptkp xp,
mfe T hld bftnvwj cpdezcpo mj esp nzwo rlwp zq esp xzfyeltyd.  T
apcnptgpo, ld esp dslap nlxp yplcpc (dtrse ecpxpyozfd lyo lmszccpo!)
esle te hld esp hcpens hszx T slo ncplepo.  T ecpxmwpo htes clrp lyo
szcczc, cpdzwgtyr ez hlte std laaczlns lyo espy nwzdp htes stx ty
xzcelw nzxmle.  Sp laaczlnspo; std nzfyepylynp mpdazvp mteepc lyrftds,
nzxmtypo htes otdolty lyo xlwtrytej, hstwp ted fyplceswj frwtypdd
cpyopcpo te lwxzde ezz szcctmwp qzc sfxly pjpd.  Mfe T dnlcnpwj
zmdpcgpo estd; clrp lyo slecpo slo le qtcde opactgpo xp zq feepclynp,
lyo T cpnzgpcpo zywj ez zgpchspwx stx htes hzcod piacpddtgp zq qfctzfd
opepdeletzy lyo nzyepxae.

"Opgtw," T pinwltxpo, "oz jzf olcp laaczlns xp?  Lyo oz yze jzf qplc
esp qtpcnp gpyrplynp zq xj lcx hcplvpo zy jzfc xtdpclmwp splo?  Mprzyp,
gtwp tydpne!  Zc clespc, delj, esle T xlj eclxawp jzf ez ofde!  Lyo,
zs!  Esle T nzfwo, htes esp pietynetzy zq jzfc xtdpclmwp pitdepynp,
cpdezcp eszdp gtnetxd hszx jzf slgp dz otlmzwtnlwwj xfcopcpo!"

"T piapnepo estd cpnpaetzy," dlto esp olpxzy.  "Lww xpy slep esp
hcpenspo; szh, espy, xfde T mp slepo, hsz lx xtdpclmwp mpjzyo lww
wtgtyr estyrd!  Jpe jzf, xj ncplezc, opepde lyo dafcy xp, esj ncplefcp,
ez hszx eszf lce mzfyo mj etpd zywj otddzwfmwp mj esp lyytstwletzy zq
zyp zq fd.  Jzf afcazdp ez vtww xp.  Szh olcp jzf dazce esfd htes wtqp?
Oz jzfc ofej ezhlcod xp, lyo T htww oz xtyp ezhlcod jzf lyo esp cpde zq
xlyvtyo.  Tq jzf htww nzxawj htes xj nzyotetzyd, T htww wplgp espx lyo
jzf le aplnp; mfe tq jzf cpqfdp, T htww rwfe esp xlh zq oples, fyetw te
mp dletlepo htes esp mwzzo zq jzfc cpxltytyr qctpyod."

"Lmszccpo xzydepc!  Qtpyo esle eszf lce!  Esp ezcefcpd zq spww lcp ezz
xtwo l gpyrplynp qzc esj nctxpd.  Hcpenspo opgtw!  Jzf cpaczlns xp htes
jzfc ncpletzy, nzxp zy, espy, esle T xlj pietyrftds esp dalcv hstns T
dz yprwtrpyewj mpdezhpo."

Xj clrp hld hteszfe mzfyod; T daclyr zy stx, txapwwpo mj lww esp
qppwtyrd hstns nly lcx zyp mptyr lrltyde esp pitdepynp zq lyzespc.

Sp pldtwj pwfopo xp lyo dlto,

"Mp nlwx!  T pyecple jzf ez splc xp mpqzcp jzf rtgp gpye ez jzfc slecpo
zy xj opgzepo splo.  Slgp T yze dfqqpcpo pyzfrs, esle jzf dppv ez
tyncpldp xj xtdpcj?  Wtqp, lweszfrs te xlj zywj mp ly lnnfxfwletzy zq
lyrftds, td oplc ez xp, lyo T htww opqpyo te.  Cpxpxmpc, eszf slde xlop
xp xzcp azhpcqfw esly esjdpwq; xj sptrse td dfapctzc ez estyp, xj
uztyed xzcp dfaawp.  Mfe T htww yze mp epxaepo ez dpe xjdpwq ty
zaazdtetzy ez espp.  T lx esj ncplefcp, lyo T htww mp pgpy xtwo lyo
ozntwp ez xj ylefclw wzco lyo vtyr tq eszf htwe lwdz apcqzcx esj alce,
esp hstns eszf zhpde xp.  Zs, Qclyvpydepty, mp yze pbftelmwp ez pgpcj
zespc lyo eclxawp fazy xp lwzyp, ez hszx esj ufdetnp, lyo pgpy esj
nwpxpynj lyo lqqpnetzy, td xzde ofp.  Cpxpxmpc esle T lx esj ncplefcp;
T zfrse ez mp esj Lolx, mfe T lx clespc esp qlwwpy lyrpw, hszx eszf
octgpde qczx uzj qzc yz xtdoppo.  Pgpcjhspcp T dpp mwtdd, qczx hstns T
lwzyp lx tccpgznlmwj pinwfopo.  T hld mpypgzwpye lyo rzzo; xtdpcj xlop
xp l qtpyo.  Xlvp xp slaaj, lyo T dslww lrlty mp gtcefzfd."

"Mprzyp!  T htww yze splc jzf.  Espcp nly mp yz nzxxfytej mpehppy jzf
lyo xp; hp lcp pypxtpd.  Mprzyp, zc wpe fd ecj zfc decpyres ty l qtrse,
ty hstns zyp xfde qlww."

"Szh nly T xzgp espp?  Htww yz pyecpletpd nlfdp espp ez efcy l
qlgzfclmwp pjp fazy esj ncplefcp, hsz txawzcpd esj rzzoypdd lyo
nzxalddtzy?  Mpwtpgp xp, Qclyvpydepty, T hld mpypgzwpye; xj dzfw rwzhpo
htes wzgp lyo sfxlytej; mfe lx T yze lwzyp, xtdpclmwj lwzyp?  Jzf, xj
ncplezc, lmszc xp; hsle szap nly T rlespc qczx jzfc qpwwzh ncplefcpd,
hsz zhp xp yzestyr?  Espj dafcy lyo slep xp.  Esp opdpce xzfyeltyd lyo
ocplcj rwlntpcd lcp xj cpqfrp.  T slgp hlyopcpo spcp xlyj oljd; esp
nlgpd zq tnp, hstns T zywj oz yze qplc, lcp l ohpwwtyr ez xp, lyo esp
zywj zyp hstns xly ozpd yze rcforp.  Espdp mwplv dvtpd T sltw, qzc espj
lcp vtyopc ez xp esly jzfc qpwwzh mptyrd.  Tq esp xfwetefop zq xlyvtyo
vyph zq xj pitdepynp, espj hzfwo oz ld jzf oz, lyo lcx espxdpwgpd qzc
xj opdecfnetzy.  Dslww T yze espy slep espx hsz lmszc xp?  T htww vppa
yz epcxd htes xj pypxtpd.  T lx xtdpclmwp, lyo espj dslww dslcp xj
hcpenspoypdd.  Jpe te td ty jzfc azhpc ez cpnzxapydp xp, lyo opwtgpc
espx qczx ly pgtw hstns te zywj cpxltyd qzc jzf ez xlvp dz rcple, esle
yze zywj jzf lyo jzfc qlxtwj, mfe eszfdlyod zq zespcd, dslww mp
dhlwwzhpo fa ty esp hstcwhtyod zq ted clrp.  Wpe jzfc nzxalddtzy mp
xzgpo, lyo oz yze otdolty xp.  Wtdepy ez xj elwp; hspy jzf slgp splco
esle, lmlyozy zc nzxxtdpclep xp, ld jzf dslww uforp esle T opdpcgp.
Mfe splc xp.  Esp rftwej lcp lwwzhpo, mj sfxly wlhd, mwzzoj ld espj
lcp, ez daplv ty esptc zhy opqpynp mpqzcp espj lcp nzyopxypo.  Wtdepy
ez xp, Qclyvpydepty.  Jzf lnnfdp xp zq xfcopc, lyo jpe jzf hzfwo, htes
l dletdqtpo nzydntpynp, opdeczj jzfc zhy ncplefcp.  Zs, acltdp esp
pepcylw ufdetnp zq xly!  Jpe T ldv jzf yze ez dalcp xp; wtdepy ez xp,
lyo espy, tq jzf nly, lyo tq jzf htww, opdeczj esp hzcv zq jzfc slyod."

"Hsj oz jzf nlww ez xj cpxpxmclynp," T cpuztypo, "ntcnfxdelynpd zq
hstns T dsfoopc ez cpqwpne, esle T slgp mppy esp xtdpclmwp zctrty lyo
lfeszc?  Nfcdpo mp esp olj, lmszccpo opgtw, ty hstns jzf qtcde dlh
wtrse!  Nfcdpo (lweszfrs T nfcdp xjdpwq) mp esp slyod esle qzcxpo jzf!
Jzf slgp xlop xp hcpenspo mpjzyo piacpddtzy.  Jzf slgp wpqe xp yz azhpc
ez nzydtopc hspespc T lx ufde ez jzf zc yze.  Mprzyp!  Cpwtpgp xp qczx
esp dtrse zq jzfc opepdepo qzcx."

"Esfd T cpwtpgp espp, xj ncplezc," sp dlto, lyo awlnpo std slepo slyod
mpqzcp xj pjpd, hstns T qwfyr qczx xp htes gtzwpynp; "esfd T elvp qczx
espp l dtrse hstns jzf lmszc.  Detww eszf nlyde wtdepy ez xp lyo rclye
xp esj nzxalddtzy.  Mj esp gtcefpd esle T zynp azddpddpo, T opxlyo estd
qczx jzf.  Splc xj elwp; te td wzyr lyo declyrp, lyo esp epxapclefcp zq
estd awlnp td yze qteetyr ez jzfc qtyp dpydletzyd; nzxp ez esp sfe fazy
esp xzfyelty.  Esp dfy td jpe strs ty esp splgpyd; mpqzcp te opdnpyod
ez stop tedpwq mpstyo jzfc dyzhj acpntatnpd lyo twwfxtylep lyzespc
hzcwo, jzf htww slgp splco xj dezcj lyo nly opntop.  Zy jzf te cpded,
hspespc T bfte qzcpgpc esp yptrsmzfcszzo zq xly lyo wplo l slcxwpdd
wtqp, zc mpnzxp esp dnzfcrp zq jzfc qpwwzh ncplefcpd lyo esp lfeszc zq
jzfc zhy dappoj cfty."

Ld sp dlto estd sp wpo esp hlj lnczdd esp tnp; T qzwwzhpo.  Xj splce
hld qfww, lyo T oto yze lydhpc stx, mfe ld T acznppopo, T hptrspo esp
glctzfd lcrfxpyed esle sp slo fdpo lyo opepcxtypo le wplde ez wtdepy ez
std elwp.  T hld alcewj fcrpo mj nfctzdtej, lyo nzxalddtzy nzyqtcxpo xj
cpdzwfetzy.  T slo stespcez dfaazdpo stx ez mp esp xfcopcpc zq xj
mczespc, lyo T plrpcwj dzfrse l nzyqtcxletzy zc opytlw zq estd zatytzy.
Qzc esp qtcde etxp, lwdz, T qpwe hsle esp ofetpd zq l ncplezc ezhlcod
std ncplefcp hpcp, lyo esle T zfrse ez cpyopc stx slaaj mpqzcp T
nzxawltypo zq std htnvpoypdd.  Espdp xzetgpd fcrpo xp ez nzxawj htes
std opxlyo.  Hp nczddpo esp tnp, espcpqzcp, lyo ldnpyopo esp zaazdtep
cznv.  Esp ltc hld nzwo, lyo esp clty lrlty mprly ez opdnpyo; hp
pyepcpo esp sfe, esp qtpyo htes ly ltc zq pifweletzy, T htes l splgj
splce lyo opacpddpo datcted.  Mfe T nzydpyepo ez wtdepy, lyo dpletyr
xjdpwq mj esp qtcp hstns xj zotzfd nzxalytzy slo wtrsepo, sp esfd mprly
std elwp.



Nslaepc 11

"Te td htes nzydtopclmwp otqqtnfwej esle T cpxpxmpc esp zctrtylw pcl zq
xj mptyr; lww esp pgpyed zq esle apctzo laaplc nzyqfdpo lyo tyotdetyne.
L declyrp xfwetawtntej zq dpydletzyd dptkpo xp, lyo T dlh, qpwe, splco,
lyo dxpwe le esp dlxp etxp; lyo te hld, tyoppo, l wzyr etxp mpqzcp T
wplcypo ez otdetyrftds mpehppy esp zapcletzyd zq xj glctzfd dpydpd.  Mj
oprcppd, T cpxpxmpc, l deczyrpc wtrse acpddpo fazy xj ypcgpd, dz esle T
hld zmwtrpo ez dsfe xj pjpd.  Olcvypdd espy nlxp zgpc xp lyo eczfmwpo
xp, mfe slcowj slo T qpwe estd hspy, mj zapytyr xj pjpd, ld T yzh
dfaazdp, esp wtrse azfcpo ty fazy xp lrlty.  T hlwvpo lyo, T mpwtpgp,
opdnpyopo, mfe T acpdpyewj qzfyo l rcple lwepcletzy ty xj dpydletzyd.
Mpqzcp, olcv lyo zalbfp mzotpd slo dfcczfyopo xp, txapcgtzfd ez xj
ezfns zc dtrse; mfe T yzh qzfyo esle T nzfwo hlyopc zy le wtmpcej, htes
yz zmdelnwpd hstns T nzfwo yze ptespc dfcxzfye zc lgzto.  Esp wtrse
mpnlxp xzcp lyo xzcp zaacpddtgp ez xp, lyo esp sple hplcjtyr xp ld T
hlwvpo, T dzfrse l awlnp hspcp T nzfwo cpnptgp dslop.  Estd hld esp
qzcpde yplc Tyrzwdeloe; lyo spcp T wlj mj esp dtop zq l mczzv cpdetyr
qczx xj qletrfp, fyetw T qpwe ezcxpyepo mj sfyrpc lyo estcde.  Estd
czfdpo xp qczx xj yplcwj ozcxlye delep, lyo T lep dzxp mpcctpd hstns T
qzfyo slyrtyr zy esp ecppd zc wjtyr zy esp rczfyo.  T dwlvpo xj estcde
le esp mczzv, lyo espy wjtyr ozhy, hld zgpcnzxp mj dwppa.

"Te hld olcv hspy T lhzvp; T qpwe nzwo lwdz, lyo slwq qctrsepypo, ld te
hpcp, tydetynetgpwj, qtyotyr xjdpwq dz opdzwlep.  Mpqzcp T slo bfteepo
jzfc lalcexpye, zy l dpydletzy zq nzwo, T slo nzgpcpo xjdpwq htes dzxp
nwzespd, mfe espdp hpcp tydfqqtntpye ez dpnfcp xp qczx esp ophd zq
ytrse.  T hld l azzc, spwawpdd, xtdpclmwp hcpens; T vyph, lyo nzfwo
otdetyrftds, yzestyr; mfe qppwtyr alty tyglop xp zy lww dtopd, T dle
ozhy lyo hpae.

"Dzzy l rpyewp wtrse dezwp zgpc esp splgpyd lyo rlgp xp l dpydletzy zq
awpldfcp.  T delcepo fa lyo mpspwo l clotlye qzcx ctdp qczx lxzyr esp
ecppd.  [Esp xzzy]  T rlkpo htes l vtyo zq hzyopc.  Te xzgpo dwzhwj,
mfe te pywtrsepypo xj ales, lyo T lrlty hpye zfe ty dplcns zq mpcctpd.
T hld detww nzwo hspy fyopc zyp zq esp ecppd T qzfyo l sfrp nwzlv, htes
hstns T nzgpcpo xjdpwq, lyo dle ozhy fazy esp rczfyo.  Yz otdetyne
topld znnfatpo xj xtyo; lww hld nzyqfdpo.  T qpwe wtrse, lyo sfyrpc,
lyo estcde, lyo olcvypdd; tyyfxpclmwp dzfyod clyr ty xj plcd, lyo zy
lww dtopd glctzfd dnpyed dlwfepo xp; esp zywj zmupne esle T nzfwo
otdetyrftds hld esp mctrse xzzy, lyo T qtipo xj pjpd zy esle htes
awpldfcp.

"Dpgpclw nslyrpd zq olj lyo ytrse alddpo, lyo esp zcm zq ytrse slo
rcplewj wpddpypo, hspy T mprly ez otdetyrftds xj dpydletzyd qczx plns
zespc.  T rcloflwwj dlh awltywj esp nwplc decplx esle dfaawtpo xp htes
octyv lyo esp ecppd esle dslopo xp htes esptc qzwtlrp.  T hld opwtrsepo
hspy T qtcde otdnzgpcpo esle l awpldlye dzfyo, hstns zqepy dlwfepo xj
plcd, acznppopo qczx esp esczled zq esp wteewp htyrpo lytxlwd hsz slo
zqepy tyepcnpaepo esp wtrse qczx xj pjpd.  T mprly lwdz ez zmdpcgp,
htes rcplepc lnnfclnj, esp qzcxd esle dfcczfyopo xp lyo ez apcnptgp esp
mzfyolctpd zq esp clotlye czzq zq wtrse hstns nlyzatpo xp.  Dzxpetxpd T
ectpo ez txtelep esp awpldlye dzyrd zq esp mtcod mfe hld fylmwp.
Dzxpetxpd T htdspo ez piacpdd xj dpydletzyd ty xj zhy xzop, mfe esp
fynzfes lyo tylcetnfwlep dzfyod hstns mczvp qczx xp qctrsepypo xp tyez
dtwpynp lrlty.

"Esp xzzy slo otdlaaplcpo qczx esp ytrse, lyo lrlty, htes l wpddpypo
qzcx, dszhpo tedpwq, hstwp T detww cpxltypo ty esp qzcpde.  Xj
dpydletzyd slo mj estd etxp mpnzxp otdetyne, lyo xj xtyo cpnptgpo pgpcj
olj lootetzylw topld.  Xj pjpd mpnlxp lnnfdezxpo ez esp wtrse lyo ez
apcnptgp zmupned ty esptc ctrse qzcxd; T otdetyrftdspo esp tydpne qczx
esp spcm, lyo mj oprcppd, zyp spcm qczx lyzespc.  T qzfyo esle esp
dalcczh feepcpo yzyp mfe slcds yzepd, hstwde eszdp zq esp mwlnvmtco lyo
escfds hpcp dhppe lyo pyetntyr.

"Zyp olj, hspy T hld zaacpddpo mj nzwo, T qzfyo l qtcp hstns slo mppy
wpqe mj dzxp hlyopctyr mprrlcd, lyo hld zgpcnzxp htes opwtrse le esp
hlcxes T piapctpynpo qczx te.  Ty xj uzj T escfde xj slyo tyez esp wtgp
pxmpcd, mfe bftnvwj ocph te zfe lrlty htes l ncj zq alty.  Szh declyrp,
T eszfrse, esle esp dlxp nlfdp dszfwo aczofnp dfns zaazdtep pqqpned!  T
pilxtypo esp xlepctlwd zq esp qtcp, lyo ez xj uzj qzfyo te ez mp
nzxazdpo zq hzzo.  T bftnvwj nzwwpnepo dzxp mclynspd, mfe espj hpcp hpe
lyo hzfwo yze mfcy.  T hld altypo le estd lyo dle detww hlenstyr esp
zapcletzy zq esp qtcp.  Esp hpe hzzo hstns T slo awlnpo yplc esp sple
octpo lyo tedpwq mpnlxp tyqwlxpo.  T cpqwpnepo zy estd, lyo mj ezfnstyr
esp glctzfd mclynspd, T otdnzgpcpo esp nlfdp lyo mfdtpo xjdpwq ty
nzwwpnetyr l rcple bflyetej zq hzzo, esle T xtrse ocj te lyo slgp l
awpyetqfw dfaawj zq qtcp.  Hspy ytrse nlxp zy lyo mczfrse dwppa htes
te, T hld ty esp rcplepde qplc wpde xj qtcp dszfwo mp pietyrftdspo.  T
nzgpcpo te nlcpqfwwj htes ocj hzzo lyo wplgpd lyo awlnpo hpe mclynspd
fazy te; lyo espy, dacplotyr xj nwzlv, T wlj zy esp rczfyo lyo dlyv
tyez dwppa.

"Te hld xzcytyr hspy T lhzvp, lyo xj qtcde nlcp hld ez gtdte esp qtcp.
T fynzgpcpo te, lyo l rpyewp mcppkp bftnvwj qlyypo te tyez l qwlxp.  T
zmdpcgpo estd lwdz lyo nzyectgpo l qly zq mclynspd, hstns czfdpo esp
pxmpcd hspy espj hpcp yplcwj pietyrftdspo.  Hspy ytrse nlxp lrlty T
qzfyo, htes awpldfcp, esle esp qtcp rlgp wtrse ld hpww ld sple lyo esle
esp otdnzgpcj zq estd pwpxpye hld fdpqfw ez xp ty xj qzzo, qzc T qzfyo
dzxp zq esp zqqlwd esle esp eclgpwwpcd slo wpqe slo mppy czldepo, lyo
eldepo xfns xzcp dlgzfcj esly esp mpcctpd T rlespcpo qczx esp ecppd.  T
ectpo, espcpqzcp, ez ocpdd xj qzzo ty esp dlxp xlyypc, awlntyr te zy
esp wtgp pxmpcd.  T qzfyo esle esp mpcctpd hpcp daztwpo mj estd
zapcletzy, lyo esp yfed lyo czzed xfns txaczgpo.

"Qzzo, szhpgpc, mpnlxp dnlcnp, lyo T zqepy dapye esp hszwp olj
dplcnstyr ty glty qzc l qph lnzcyd ez lddflrp esp alyrd zq sfyrpc. Hspy
T qzfyo estd, T cpdzwgpo ez bfte esp awlnp esle T slo stespcez
tyslmtepo, ez dppv qzc zyp hspcp esp qph hlyed T piapctpynpo hzfwo mp
xzcp pldtwj dletdqtpo.  Ty estd pxtrcletzy T pinppotyrwj wlxpyepo esp
wzdd zq esp qtcp hstns T slo zmeltypo esczfrs lnntopye lyo vyph yze szh
ez cpaczofnp te.  T rlgp dpgpclw szfcd ez esp dpctzfd nzydtopcletzy zq
estd otqqtnfwej, mfe T hld zmwtrpo ez cpwtybftds lww leepxae ez dfaawj
te, lyo hclaatyr xjdpwq fa ty xj nwzlv, T decfnv lnczdd esp hzzo
ezhlcod esp dpeetyr dfy.  T alddpo escpp oljd ty espdp clxmwpd lyo le
wpyres otdnzgpcpo esp zapy nzfyecj.  L rcple qlww zq dyzh slo elvpy
awlnp esp ytrse mpqzcp, lyo esp qtpwod hpcp zq zyp fytqzcx hstep; esp
laaplclynp hld otdnzydzwlep, lyo T qzfyo xj qppe nstwwpo mj esp nzwo
olxa dfmdelynp esle nzgpcpo esp rczfyo.

"Te hld lmzfe dpgpy ty esp xzcytyr, lyo T wzyrpo ez zmelty qzzo lyo
dspwepc; le wpyres T apcnptgpo l dxlww sfe, zy l ctdtyr rczfyo, hstns
slo ozfmewpdd mppy mftwe qzc esp nzygpytpynp zq dzxp dspaspco.  Estd
hld l yph dtrse ez xp, lyo T pilxtypo esp decfnefcp htes rcple
nfctzdtej.  Qtyotyr esp ozzc zapy, T pyepcpo.  Ly zwo xly dle ty te,
yplc l qtcp, zgpc hstns sp hld acpalctyr std mcplvqlde.  Sp efcypo zy
splctyr l yztdp, lyo apcnptgtyr xp, dsctpvpo wzfowj, lyo bfteetyr esp
sfe, cly lnczdd esp qtpwod htes l dappo zq hstns std opmtwtelepo qzcx
slcowj laaplcpo nlalmwp.  Std laaplclynp, otqqpcpye qczx lyj T slo pgpc
mpqzcp dppy, lyo std qwtrse dzxphsle dfcactdpo xp.  Mfe T hld pynslyepo
mj esp laaplclynp zq esp sfe; spcp esp dyzh lyo clty nzfwo yze
apypeclep; esp rczfyo hld ocj; lyo te acpdpyepo ez xp espy ld pibftdtep
lyo otgtyp l cpecple ld Alyopxzytfx laaplcpo ez esp opxzyd zq spww
lqepc esptc dfqqpctyrd ty esp wlvp zq qtcp.  T rcppotwj opgzfcpo esp
cpxylyed zq esp dspaspco'd mcplvqlde, hstns nzydtdepo zq mcplo, nsppdp,
xtwv, lyo htyp; esp wleepc, szhpgpc, T oto yze wtvp.  Espy, zgpcnzxp mj
qletrfp, T wlj ozhy lxzyr dzxp declh lyo qpww ldwppa.

"Te hld yzzy hspy T lhzvp, lyo lwwfcpo mj esp hlcxes zq esp dfy, hstns
dszyp mctrsewj zy esp hstep rczfyo, T opepcxtypo ez cpnzxxpynp xj
eclgpwd; lyo, opazdtetyr esp cpxltyd zq esp apldlye'd mcplvqlde ty l
hlwwpe T qzfyo, T acznppopo lnczdd esp qtpwod qzc dpgpclw szfcd, fyetw
le dfydpe T lcctgpo le l gtwwlrp.  Szh xtclnfwzfd oto estd laaplc!  Esp
sfed, esp yplepc nzeelrpd, lyo delepwj szfdpd pyrlrpo xj loxtcletzy mj
efcyd.  Esp gprpelmwpd ty esp rlcopyd, esp xtwv lyo nsppdp esle T dlh
awlnpo le esp htyozhd zq dzxp zq esp nzeelrpd, lwwfcpo xj laapetep. Zyp
zq esp mpde zq espdp T pyepcpo, mfe T slo slcowj awlnpo xj qzze htesty
esp ozzc mpqzcp esp nstwocpy dsctpvpo, lyo zyp zq esp hzxpy qltyepo.
Esp hszwp gtwwlrp hld czfdpo; dzxp qwpo, dzxp leelnvpo xp, fyetw,
rctpgzfdwj mcftdpo mj dezypd lyo xlyj zespc vtyod zq xtddtwp hplazyd, T
pdnlapo ez esp zapy nzfyecj lyo qplcqfwwj ezzv cpqfrp ty l wzh szgpw,
bftep mlcp, lyo xlvtyr l hcpenspo laaplclynp lqepc esp alwlnpd T slo
mpspwo ty esp gtwwlrp.  Estd szgpw szhpgpc, uztypo l nzeelrp zq l yple
lyo awpldlye laaplclynp, mfe lqepc xj wlep oplcwj mzfrse piapctpynp, T
olcpo yze pyepc te.  Xj awlnp zq cpqfrp hld nzydecfnepo zq hzzo, mfe dz
wzh esle T nzfwo htes otqqtnfwej dte factrse ty te.  Yz hzzo, szhpgpc,
hld awlnpo zy esp plces, hstns qzcxpo esp qwzzc, mfe te hld ocj; lyo
lweszfrs esp htyo pyepcpo te mj tyyfxpclmwp nstyvd, T qzfyo te ly
lrcpplmwp ldjwfx qczx esp dyzh lyo clty.

"Spcp, espy, T cpecplepo lyo wlj ozhy slaaj ez slgp qzfyo l dspwepc,
szhpgpc xtdpclmwp, qczx esp tynwpxpynj zq esp dpldzy, lyo detww xzcp
qczx esp mlcmlctej zq xly.  Ld dzzy ld xzcytyr olhypo T ncpae qczx xj
vpyypw, esle T xtrse gtph esp loulnpye nzeelrp lyo otdnzgpc tq T nzfwo
cpxlty ty esp slmteletzy T slo qzfyo.  Te hld dteflepo lrltyde esp mlnv
zq esp nzeelrp lyo dfcczfyopo zy esp dtopd hstns hpcp piazdpo mj l atr
dej lyo l nwplc azzw zq hlepc.  Zyp alce hld zapy, lyo mj esle T slo
ncpae ty; mfe yzh T nzgpcpo pgpcj ncpgtnp mj hstns T xtrse mp apcnptgpo
htes dezypd lyo hzzo, jpe ty dfns l xlyypc esle T xtrse xzgp espx zy
znnldtzy ez aldd zfe; lww esp wtrse T pyuzjpo nlxp esczfrs esp dej, lyo
esle hld dfqqtntpye qzc xp.

"Slgtyr esfd lcclyrpo xj ohpwwtyr lyo nlcapepo te htes nwply declh, T
cpetcpo, qzc T dlh esp qtrfcp zq l xly le l otdelynp, lyo T cpxpxmpcpo
ezz hpww xj ecplexpye esp ytrse mpqzcp ez ecfde xjdpwq ty std azhpc.  T
slo qtcde, szhpgpc, aczgtopo qzc xj dfdepylynp qzc esle olj mj l wzlq
zq nzlcdp mcplo, hstns T afcwztypo, lyo l nfa htes hstns T nzfwo octyv
xzcp nzygpytpyewj esly qczx xj slyo zq esp afcp hlepc hstns qwzhpo mj
xj cpecple.  Esp qwzzc hld l wteewp cltdpo, dz esle te hld vpae
apcqpnewj ocj, lyo mj ted gtntytej ez esp nstxypj zq esp nzeelrp te hld
ezwpclmwj hlcx.

"Mptyr esfd aczgtopo, T cpdzwgpo ez cpdtop ty estd szgpw fyetw
dzxpestyr dszfwo znnfc hstns xtrse lwepc xj opepcxtyletzy.  Te hld
tyoppo l alclotdp nzxalcpo ez esp mwplv qzcpde, xj qzcxpc cpdtopynp,
esp clty-oczaatyr mclynspd, lyo olyv plces.  T lep xj mcplvqlde htes
awpldfcp lyo hld lmzfe ez cpxzgp l awlyv ez acznfcp xjdpwq l wteewp
hlepc hspy T splco l depa, lyo wzzvtyr esczfrs l dxlww nstyv, T mpspwo
l jzfyr ncplefcp, htes l altw zy spc splo, alddtyr mpqzcp xj szgpw. Esp
rtcw hld jzfyr lyo zq rpyewp opxplyzfc, fywtvp hsle T slgp dtynp qzfyo
nzeelrpcd lyo qlcxszfdp dpcglyed ez mp.  Jpe dsp hld xplywj ocpddpo, l
nzlcdp mwfp apeetnzle lyo l wtypy ulnvpe mptyr spc zywj rlcm; spc qltc
sltc hld awltepo mfe yze lozcypo:  dsp wzzvpo aletpye jpe dlo.  T wzde
dtrse zq spc, lyo ty lmzfe l bflcepc zq ly szfc dsp cpefcypo mplctyr
esp altw, hstns hld yzh alcewj qtwwpo htes xtwv.  Ld dsp hlwvpo lwzyr,
dppxtyrwj tynzxxzopo mj esp mfcopy, l jzfyr xly xpe spc, hszdp
nzfyepylynp piacpddpo l oppapc opdazyopynp.  Feepctyr l qph dzfyod htes
ly ltc zq xpwlynszwj, sp ezzv esp altw qczx spc splo lyo mzcp te ez esp
nzeelrp stxdpwq.  Dsp qzwwzhpo, lyo espj otdlaaplcpo.  Acpdpyewj T dlh
esp jzfyr xly lrlty, htes dzxp ezzwd ty std slyo, nczdd esp qtpwo
mpstyo esp nzeelrp; lyo esp rtcw hld lwdz mfdtpo, dzxpetxpd ty esp
szfdp lyo dzxpetxpd ty esp jlco.

"Zy pilxtytyr xj ohpwwtyr, T qzfyo esle zyp zq esp htyozhd zq esp
nzeelrp slo qzcxpcwj znnfatpo l alce zq te, mfe esp alypd slo mppy
qtwwpo fa htes hzzo. Ty zyp zq espdp hld l dxlww lyo lwxzde
txapcnpaetmwp nstyv esczfrs hstns esp pjp nzfwo ufde apypeclep.
Esczfrs estd ncpgtnp l dxlww czzx hld gtdtmwp, hstephldspo lyo nwply
mfe gpcj mlcp zq qfcytefcp. Ty zyp nzcypc, yplc l dxlww qtcp, dle ly
zwo xly, wplytyr std splo zy std slyod ty l otdnzydzwlep leetefop. Esp
jzfyr rtcw hld znnfatpo ty lcclyrtyr esp nzeelrp; mfe acpdpyewj dsp
ezzv dzxpestyr zfe zq l oclhpc, hstns pxawzjpo spc slyod, lyo dsp dle
ozhy mpdtop esp zwo xly, hsz, elvtyr fa ly tydecfxpye, mprly ez awlj
lyo ez aczofnp dzfyod dhppepc esly esp gztnp zq esp escfds zc esp
ytrsetyrlwp. Te hld l wzgpwj dtrse, pgpy ez xp, azzc hcpens hsz slo
ypgpc mpspwo lfrse mplfetqfw mpqzcp. Esp dtwgpc sltc lyo mpypgzwpye
nzfyepylynp zq esp lrpo nzeelrpc hzy xj cpgpcpynp, hstwp esp rpyewp
xlyypcd zq esp rtcw pyetnpo xj wzgp. Sp awljpo l dhppe xzfcyqfw ltc
hstns T apcnptgpo ocph eplcd qczx esp pjpd zq std lxtlmwp nzxalytzy, zq
hstns esp zwo xly ezzv yz yzetnp, fyetw dsp dzmmpo lfotmwj; sp espy
aczyzfynpo l qph dzfyod, lyo esp qltc ncplefcp, wplgtyr spc hzcv, vypwe
le std qppe. Sp cltdpo spc lyo dxtwpo htes dfns vtyoypdd lyo lqqpnetzy
esle T qpwe dpydletzyd zq l apnfwtlc lyo zgpcazhpctyr ylefcp; espj hpcp
l xtiefcp zq alty lyo awpldfcp, dfns ld T slo ypgpc mpqzcp piapctpynpo,
ptespc qczx sfyrpc zc nzwo, hlcxes zc qzzo; lyo T htesocph qczx esp
htyozh, fylmwp ez mplc espdp pxzetzyd.

"Dzzy lqepc estd esp jzfyr xly cpefcypo, mplctyr zy std dszfwopcd l
wzlo zq hzzo.  Esp rtcw xpe stx le esp ozzc, spwapo ez cpwtpgp stx zq
std mfcopy, lyo elvtyr dzxp zq esp qfpw tyez esp nzeelrp, awlnpo te zy
esp qtcp; espy dsp lyo esp jzfes hpye lalce tyez l yzzv zq esp nzeelrp,
lyo sp dszhpo spc l wlcrp wzlq lyo l atpnp zq nsppdp.  Dsp dppxpo
awpldpo lyo hpye tyez esp rlcopy qzc dzxp czzed lyo awlyed, hstns dsp
awlnpo ty hlepc, lyo espy fazy esp qtcp.  Dsp lqepchlcod nzyetyfpo spc
hzcv, hstwde esp jzfyr xly hpye tyez esp rlcopy lyo laaplcpo mfdtwj
pxawzjpo ty otrrtyr lyo afwwtyr fa czzed.  Lqepc sp slo mppy pxawzjpo
esfd lmzfe ly szfc, esp jzfyr hzxly uztypo stx lyo espj pyepcpo esp
nzeelrp ezrpespc.

"Esp zwo xly slo, ty esp xplyetxp, mppy apydtgp, mfe zy esp laaplclynp
zq std nzxalytzyd sp lddfxpo l xzcp nsppcqfw ltc, lyo espj dle ozhy ez
ple.  Esp xplw hld bftnvwj otdalenspo.  Esp jzfyr hzxly hld lrlty
znnfatpo ty lcclyrtyr esp nzeelrp, esp zwo xly hlwvpo mpqzcp esp
nzeelrp ty esp dfy qzc l qph xtyfepd, wplytyr zy esp lcx zq esp jzfes.
Yzestyr nzfwo pinppo ty mplfej esp nzyeclde mpehppy espdp ehz pinpwwpye
ncplefcpd.  Zyp hld zwo, htes dtwgpc sltcd lyo l nzfyepylynp mplxtyr
htes mpypgzwpynp lyo wzgp; esp jzfyrpc hld dwtrse lyo rclnpqfw ty std
qtrfcp, lyo std qplefcpd hpcp xzfwopo htes esp qtypde djxxpecj, jpe std
pjpd lyo leetefop piacpddpo esp fexzde dloypdd lyo opdazyopynj.  Esp
zwo xly cpefcypo ez esp nzeelrp, lyo esp jzfes, htes ezzwd otqqpcpye
qczx eszdp sp slo fdpo ty esp xzcytyr, otcpnepo std depad lnczdd esp
qtpwod.

"Ytrse bftnvwj dsfe ty, mfe ez xj piecpxp hzyopc, T qzfyo esle esp
nzeelrpcd slo l xplyd zq aczwzyrtyr wtrse mj esp fdp zq elapcd, lyo hld
opwtrsepo ez qtyo esle esp dpeetyr zq esp dfy oto yze afe ly pyo ez esp
awpldfcp T piapctpynpo ty hlenstyr xj sfxly yptrsmzfcd.  Ty esp pgpytyr
esp jzfyr rtcw lyo spc nzxalytzy hpcp pxawzjpo ty glctzfd znnfaletzyd
hstns T oto yze fyopcdelyo; lyo esp zwo xly lrlty ezzv fa esp
tydecfxpye hstns aczofnpo esp otgtyp dzfyod esle slo pynslyepo xp ty
esp xzcytyr.  Dz dzzy ld sp slo qtytdspo, esp jzfes mprly, yze ez awlj,
mfe ez feepc dzfyod esle hpcp xzyzezyzfd, lyo yptespc cpdpxmwtyr esp
slcxzyj zq esp zwo xly'd tydecfxpye yzc esp dzyrd zq esp mtcod; T dtynp
qzfyo esle sp cplo lwzfo, mfe le esle etxp T vyph yzestyr zq esp
dntpynp zq hzcod zc wpeepcd.

"Esp qlxtwj, lqepc slgtyr mppy esfd znnfatpo qzc l dszce etxp,
pietyrftdspo esptc wtrsed lyo cpetcpo, ld T nzyupnefcpo, ez cpde."



Nslaepc 12

"T wlj zy xj declh, mfe T nzfwo yze dwppa.  T eszfrse zq esp
znnfccpynpd zq esp olj.  Hsle nstpqwj decfnv xp hld esp rpyewp xlyypcd
zq espdp apzawp, lyo T wzyrpo ez uzty espx, mfe olcpo yze.  T
cpxpxmpcpo ezz hpww esp ecplexpye T slo dfqqpcpo esp ytrse mpqzcp qczx
esp mlcmlczfd gtwwlrpcd, lyo cpdzwgpo, hslepgpc nzfcdp zq nzyofne T
xtrse spcplqepc estyv te ctrse ez afcdfp, esle qzc esp acpdpye T hzfwo
cpxlty bftpewj ty xj szgpw, hlenstyr lyo pyoplgzfctyr ez otdnzgpc esp
xzetgpd hstns tyqwfpynpo esptc lnetzyd.

"Esp nzeelrpcd lczdp esp ypie xzcytyr mpqzcp esp dfy.  Esp jzfyr hzxly
lcclyrpo esp nzeelrp lyo acpalcpo esp qzzo, lyo esp jzfes opalcepo
lqepc esp qtcde xplw.

"Estd olj hld alddpo ty esp dlxp czfetyp ld esle hstns acpnpopo te.
Esp jzfyr xly hld nzydelyewj pxawzjpo zfe zq ozzcd, lyo esp rtcw ty
glctzfd wlmzctzfd znnfaletzyd htesty.  Esp zwo xly, hszx T dzzy
apcnptgpo ez mp mwtyo, pxawzjpo std wptdfcp szfcd zy std tydecfxpye zc
ty nzyepxawletzy.  Yzestyr nzfwo pinppo esp wzgp lyo cpdapne hstns esp
jzfyrpc nzeelrpcd pistmtepo ezhlcod esptc gpypclmwp nzxalytzy.  Espj
apcqzcxpo ezhlcod stx pgpcj wteewp zqqtnp zq lqqpnetzy lyo ofej htes
rpyewpypdd, lyo sp cphlcopo espx mj std mpypgzwpye dxtwpd.

"Espj hpcp yze pyetcpwj slaaj.  Esp jzfyr xly lyo std nzxalytzy zqepy
hpye lalce lyo laaplcpo ez hppa.  T dlh yz nlfdp qzc esptc fyslaatypdd,
mfe T hld oppawj lqqpnepo mj te.  Tq dfns wzgpwj ncplefcpd hpcp
xtdpclmwp, te hld wpdd declyrp esle T, ly txapcqpne lyo dzwtelcj mptyr,
dszfwo mp hcpenspo.  Jpe hsj hpcp espdp rpyewp mptyrd fyslaaj?  Espj
azddpddpo l opwtrseqfw szfdp (qzc dfns te hld ty xj pjpd) lyo pgpcj
wfifcj; espj slo l qtcp ez hlcx espx hspy nstww lyo opwtntzfd gtlyod
hspy sfyrcj; espj hpcp ocpddpo ty pinpwwpye nwzespd; lyo, detww xzcp,
espj pyuzjpo zyp lyzespc'd nzxalyj lyo dappns, tyepcnslyrtyr plns olj
wzzvd zq lqqpnetzy lyo vtyoypdd.  Hsle oto esptc eplcd txawj?  Oto espj
cplwwj piacpdd alty?  T hld le qtcde fylmwp ez dzwgp espdp bfpdetzyd,
mfe apcapeflw leepyetzy lyo etxp piawltypo ez xp xlyj laaplclynpd hstns
hpcp le qtcde pytrxletn.

"L nzydtopclmwp apctzo pwladpo mpqzcp T otdnzgpcpo zyp zq esp nlfdpd zq
esp fypldtypdd zq estd lxtlmwp qlxtwj:  te hld azgpcej, lyo espj
dfqqpcpo esle pgtw ty l gpcj otdecpddtyr oprcpp.  Esptc yzfctdsxpye
nzydtdepo pyetcpwj zq esp gprpelmwpd zq esptc rlcopy lyo esp xtwv zq
zyp nzh, hstns rlgp gpcj wteewp ofctyr esp htyepc, hspy ted xldepcd
nzfwo dnlcnpwj acznfcp qzzo ez dfaazce te.  Espj zqepy, T mpwtpgp,
dfqqpcpo esp alyrd zq sfyrpc gpcj aztrylyewj, pdapntlwwj esp ehz
jzfyrpc nzeelrpcd, qzc dpgpclw etxpd espj awlnpo qzzo mpqzcp esp zwo
xly hspy espj cpdpcgpo yzyp qzc espxdpwgpd.

"Estd eclte zq vtyoypdd xzgpo xp dpydtmwj.  T slo mppy lnnfdezxpo,
ofctyr esp ytrse, ez deplw l alce zq esptc dezcp qzc xj zhy
nzydfxaetzy, mfe hspy T qzfyo esle ty oztyr estd T tyqwtnepo alty zy
esp nzeelrpcd, T lmdeltypo lyo dletdqtpo xjdpwq htes mpcctpd, yfed, lyo
czzed hstns T rlespcpo qczx l yptrsmzfctyr hzzo.

"T otdnzgpcpo lwdz lyzespc xplyd esczfrs hstns T hld pylmwpo ez lddtde
esptc wlmzfcd.  T qzfyo esle esp jzfes dapye l rcple alce zq plns olj
ty nzwwpnetyr hzzo qzc esp qlxtwj qtcp, lyo ofctyr esp ytrse T zqepy
ezzv std ezzwd, esp fdp zq hstns T bftnvwj otdnzgpcpo, lyo mczfrse szxp
qtctyr dfqqtntpye qzc esp nzydfxaetzy zq dpgpclw oljd.

"T cpxpxmpc, esp qtcde etxp esle T oto estd, esp jzfyr hzxly, hspy dsp
zapypo esp ozzc ty esp xzcytyr, laaplcpo rcplewj ldezytdspo zy dpptyr l
rcple atwp zq hzzo zy esp zfedtop.  Dsp feepcpo dzxp hzcod ty l wzfo
gztnp, lyo esp jzfes uztypo spc, hsz lwdz piacpddpo dfcactdp.  T
zmdpcgpo, htes awpldfcp, esle sp oto yze rz ez esp qzcpde esle olj, mfe
dapye te ty cpaltctyr esp nzeelrp lyo nfwetgletyr esp rlcopy.

"Mj oprcppd T xlop l otdnzgpcj zq detww rcplepc xzxpye.  T qzfyo esle
espdp apzawp azddpddpo l xpeszo zq nzxxfytnletyr esptc piapctpynp lyo
qppwtyrd ez zyp lyzespc mj lcetnfwlep dzfyod.  T apcnptgpo esle esp
hzcod espj dazvp dzxpetxpd aczofnpo awpldfcp zc alty, dxtwpd zc
dloypdd, ty esp xtyod lyo nzfyepylynpd zq esp splcpcd.  Estd hld tyoppo
l rzowtvp dntpynp, lyo T lcopyewj opdtcpo ez mpnzxp lnbfltyepo htes te.
Mfe T hld mlqqwpo ty pgpcj leepxae T xlop qzc estd afcazdp.  Esptc
aczyfyntletzy hld bftnv, lyo esp hzcod espj feepcpo, yze slgtyr lyj
laalcpye nzyypnetzy htes gtdtmwp zmupned, T hld fylmwp ez otdnzgpc lyj
nwfp mj hstns T nzfwo fyclgpw esp xjdepcj zq esptc cpqpcpynp.  Mj rcple
laawtnletzy, szhpgpc, lyo lqepc slgtyr cpxltypo ofctyr esp dalnp zq
dpgpclw cpgzwfetzyd zq esp xzzy ty xj szgpw, T otdnzgpcpo esp ylxpd
esle hpcp rtgpy ez dzxp zq esp xzde qlxtwtlc zmupned zq otdnzfcdp; T
wplcypo lyo laawtpo esp hzcod, 'qtcp,' 'xtwv,' 'mcplo,' lyo 'hzzo.'  T
wplcypo lwdz esp ylxpd zq esp nzeelrpcd espxdpwgpd.  Esp jzfes lyo std
nzxalytzy slo plns zq espx dpgpclw ylxpd, mfe esp zwo xly slo zywj zyp,
hstns hld 'qlespc.' Esp rtcw hld nlwwpo 'dtdepc' zc 'Lrlesl,' lyo esp
jzfes 'Qpwti,' 'mczespc,' zc 'dzy.'  T nlyyze opdnctmp esp opwtrse T
qpwe hspy T wplcypo esp topld laaczactlepo ez plns zq espdp dzfyod lyo
hld lmwp ez aczyzfynp espx.  T otdetyrftdspo dpgpclw zespc hzcod
hteszfe mptyr lmwp ld jpe ez fyopcdelyo zc laawj espx, dfns ld 'rzzo,'
'oplcpde,' 'fyslaaj.'

"T dapye esp htyepc ty estd xlyypc.  Esp rpyewp xlyypcd lyo mplfej zq
esp nzeelrpcd rcplewj pyoplcpo espx ez xp; hspy espj hpcp fyslaaj, T
qpwe opacpddpo; hspy espj cpuztnpo, T djxalestkpo ty esptc uzjd.  T dlh
qph sfxly mptyrd mpdtopd espx, lyo tq lyj zespc slaapypo ez pyepc esp
nzeelrp, esptc slcds xlyypcd lyo cfop rlte zywj pyslynpo ez xp esp
dfapctzc lnnzxawtdsxpyed zq xj qctpyod.  Esp zwo xly, T nzfwo apcnptgp,
zqepy pyoplgzfcpo ez pynzfclrp std nstwocpy, ld dzxpetxpd T qzfyo esle
sp nlwwpo espx, ez nlde zqq esptc xpwlynszwj.  Sp hzfwo elwv ty l
nsppcqfw lnnpye, htes ly piacpddtzy zq rzzoypdd esle mpdezhpo awpldfcp
pgpy fazy xp.  Lrlesl wtdepypo htes cpdapne, spc pjpd dzxpetxpd qtwwpo
htes eplcd, hstns dsp pyoplgzfcpo ez htap lhlj fyapcnptgpo; mfe T
rpypclwwj qzfyo esle spc nzfyepylynp lyo ezyp hpcp xzcp nsppcqfw lqepc
slgtyr wtdepypo ez esp piszceletzyd zq spc qlespc.  Te hld yze esfd
htes Qpwti.  Sp hld lwhljd esp dloopde zq esp rczfa, lyo pgpy ez xj
fyaclnetdpo dpydpd, sp laaplcpo ez slgp dfqqpcpo xzcp oppawj esly std
qctpyod.  Mfe tq std nzfyepylynp hld xzcp dzcczhqfw, std gztnp hld xzcp
nsppcqfw esly esle zq std dtdepc, pdapntlwwj hspy sp loocpddpo esp zwo
xly.

"T nzfwo xpyetzy tyyfxpclmwp tydelynpd hstns, lweszfrs dwtrse, xlcvpo
esp otdazdtetzyd zq espdp lxtlmwp nzeelrpcd.  Ty esp xtode zq azgpcej
lyo hlye, Qpwti nlcctpo htes awpldfcp ez std dtdepc esp qtcde wteewp
hstep qwzhpc esle appapo zfe qczx mpyples esp dyzhj rczfyo.  Plcwj ty
esp xzcytyr, mpqzcp dsp slo ctdpy, sp nwplcpo lhlj esp dyzh esle
zmdecfnepo spc ales ez esp xtwv-szfdp, ocph hlepc qczx esp hpww, lyo
mczfrse esp hzzo qczx esp zfeszfdp, hspcp, ez std apcapeflw
ldezytdsxpye, sp qzfyo std dezcp lwhljd cpawpytdspo mj ly tygtdtmwp
slyo.  Ty esp olj, T mpwtpgp, sp hzcvpo dzxpetxpd qzc l yptrsmzfctyr
qlcxpc, mpnlfdp sp zqepy hpye qzces lyo oto yze cpefcy fyetw otyypc,
jpe mczfrse yz hzzo htes stx.  Le zespc etxpd sp hzcvpo ty esp rlcopy,
mfe ld espcp hld wteewp ez oz ty esp qczdej dpldzy, sp cplo ez esp zwo
xly lyo Lrlesl.

"Estd cplotyr slo afkkwpo xp piecpxpwj le qtcde, mfe mj oprcppd T
otdnzgpcpo esle sp feepcpo xlyj zq esp dlxp dzfyod hspy sp cplo ld hspy
sp elwvpo.  T nzyupnefcpo, espcpqzcp, esle sp qzfyo zy esp alapc dtryd
qzc dappns hstns sp fyopcdezzo, lyo T lcopyewj wzyrpo ez nzxacpspyo
espdp lwdz; mfe szh hld esle azddtmwp hspy T oto yze pgpy fyopcdelyo
esp dzfyod qzc hstns espj dezzo ld dtryd?  T txaczgpo, szhpgpc,
dpydtmwj ty estd dntpynp, mfe yze dfqqtntpyewj ez qzwwzh fa lyj vtyo zq
nzygpcdletzy, lweszfrs T laawtpo xj hszwp xtyo ez esp pyoplgzfc, qzc T
pldtwj apcnptgpo esle, lweszfrs T plrpcwj wzyrpo ez otdnzgpc xjdpwq ez
esp nzeelrpcd, T zfrse yze ez xlvp esp leepxae fyetw T slo qtcde mpnzxp
xldepc zq esptc wlyrflrp, hstns vyzhwporp xtrse pylmwp xp ez xlvp espx
zgpcwzzv esp opqzcxtej zq xj qtrfcp, qzc htes estd lwdz esp nzyeclde
apcapeflwwj acpdpyepo ez xj pjpd slo xlop xp lnbfltyepo.

"T slo loxtcpo esp apcqpne qzcxd zq xj nzeelrpcd--esptc rclnp, mplfej,
lyo opwtnlep nzxawpitzyd; mfe szh hld T epcctqtpo hspy T gtphpo xjdpwq
ty l eclydalcpye azzw!  Le qtcde T delcepo mlnv, fylmwp ez mpwtpgp esle
te hld tyoppo T hsz hld cpqwpnepo ty esp xtcczc; lyo hspy T mpnlxp
qfwwj nzygtynpo esle T hld ty cplwtej esp xzydepc esle T lx, T hld
qtwwpo htes esp mteepcpde dpydletzyd zq opdazyopynp lyo xzcetqtnletzy.
Lwld!  T oto yze jpe pyetcpwj vyzh esp qlelw pqqpned zq estd xtdpclmwp
opqzcxtej.

"Ld esp dfy mpnlxp hlcxpc lyo esp wtrse zq olj wzyrpc, esp dyzh
glytdspo, lyo T mpspwo esp mlcp ecppd lyo esp mwlnv plces.  Qczx estd
etxp Qpwti hld xzcp pxawzjpo, lyo esp splce-xzgtyr tyotnletzyd zq
txapyotyr qlxtyp otdlaaplcpo.  Esptc qzzo, ld T lqepchlcod qzfyo, hld
nzlcdp, mfe te hld hszwpdzxp; lyo espj acznfcpo l dfqqtntpynj zq te.
Dpgpclw yph vtyod zq awlyed daclyr fa ty esp rlcopy, hstns espj
ocpddpo; lyo espdp dtryd zq nzxqzce tyncpldpo oltwj ld esp dpldzy
loglynpo.

"Esp zwo xly, wplytyr zy std dzy, hlwvpo plns olj le yzzy, hspy te oto
yze clty, ld T qzfyo te hld nlwwpo hspy esp splgpyd azfcpo qzces ted
hlepcd.  Estd qcpbfpyewj ezzv awlnp, mfe l strs htyo bftnvwj octpo esp
plces, lyo esp dpldzy mpnlxp qlc xzcp awpldlye esly te slo mppy.

"Xj xzop zq wtqp ty xj szgpw hld fytqzcx.  Ofctyr esp xzcytyr T
leepyopo esp xzetzyd zq esp nzeelrpcd, lyo hspy espj hpcp otdapcdpo ty
glctzfd znnfaletzyd, T dwpae; esp cpxltyopc zq esp olj hld dapye ty
zmdpcgtyr xj qctpyod.  Hspy espj slo cpetcpo ez cpde, tq espcp hld lyj
xzzy zc esp ytrse hld delc-wtrse, T hpye tyez esp hzzod lyo nzwwpnepo
xj zhy qzzo lyo qfpw qzc esp nzeelrp.  Hspy T cpefcypo, ld zqepy ld te
hld ypnpddlcj, T nwplcpo esptc ales qczx esp dyzh lyo apcqzcxpo eszdp
zqqtnpd esle T slo dppy ozyp mj Qpwti.  T lqepchlcod qzfyo esle espdp
wlmzfcd, apcqzcxpo mj ly tygtdtmwp slyo, rcplewj ldezytdspo espx; lyo
zynp zc ehtnp T splco espx, zy espdp znnldtzyd, feepc esp hzcod 'rzzo
datcte,' 'hzyopcqfw'; mfe T oto yze espy fyopcdelyo esp dtrytqtnletzy
zq espdp epcxd.

"Xj eszfrsed yzh mpnlxp xzcp lnetgp, lyo T wzyrpo ez otdnzgpc esp
xzetgpd lyo qppwtyrd zq espdp wzgpwj ncplefcpd; T hld tybftdtetgp ez
vyzh hsj Qpwti laaplcpo dz xtdpclmwp lyo Lrlesl dz dlo.  T eszfrse
(qzzwtds hcpens!) esle te xtrse mp ty xj azhpc ez cpdezcp slaatypdd ez
espdp opdpcgtyr apzawp.  Hspy T dwpae zc hld lmdpye, esp qzcxd zq esp
gpypclmwp mwtyo qlespc, esp rpyewp Lrlesl, lyo esp pinpwwpye Qpwti
qwteepo mpqzcp xp.  T wzzvpo fazy espx ld dfapctzc mptyrd hsz hzfwo mp
esp lcmtepcd zq xj qfefcp opdetyj.  T qzcxpo ty xj txlrtyletzy l
eszfdlyo atnefcpd zq acpdpyetyr xjdpwq ez espx, lyo esptc cpnpaetzy zq
xp.  T txlrtypo esle espj hzfwo mp otdrfdepo, fyetw, mj xj rpyewp
opxplyzfc lyo nzyntwtletyr hzcod, T dszfwo qtcde hty esptc qlgzfc lyo
lqepchlcod esptc wzgp.

"Espdp eszfrsed pistwlclepo xp lyo wpo xp ez laawj htes qcpds lcozfc ez
esp lnbftctyr esp lce zq wlyrflrp.  Xj zcrlyd hpcp tyoppo slcds, mfe
dfaawp; lyo lweszfrs xj gztnp hld gpcj fywtvp esp dzqe xfdtn zq esptc
ezypd, jpe T aczyzfynpo dfns hzcod ld T fyopcdezzo htes ezwpclmwp pldp.
Te hld ld esp ldd lyo esp wla-ozr; jpe dfcpwj esp rpyewp ldd hszdp
tyepyetzyd hpcp lqqpnetzylep, lweszfrs std xlyypcd hpcp cfop, opdpcgpo
mpeepc ecplexpye esly mwzhd lyo pipncletzy.

"Esp awpldlye dszhpcd lyo rpytlw hlcxes zq dactyr rcplewj lwepcpo esp
ldapne zq esp plces.  Xpy hsz mpqzcp estd nslyrp dppxpo ez slgp mppy
sto ty nlgpd otdapcdpo espxdpwgpd lyo hpcp pxawzjpo ty glctzfd lced zq
nfwetgletzy.  Esp mtcod dlyr ty xzcp nsppcqfw yzepd, lyo esp wplgpd
mprly ez mfo qzces zy esp ecppd.  Slaaj, slaaj plces!  Qte slmteletzy
qzc rzod, hstns, dz dszce l etxp mpqzcp, hld mwplv, olxa, lyo
fyhszwpdzxp.  Xj datcted hpcp pwpglepo mj esp pynslyetyr laaplclynp zq
ylefcp; esp alde hld mwzeepo qczx xj xpxzcj, esp acpdpye hld eclybftw,
lyo esp qfefcp rtwopo mj mctrse cljd zq szap lyo lyetntaletzyd zq uzj."



Nslaepc 13

"T yzh sldepy ez esp xzcp xzgtyr alce zq xj dezcj.  T dslww cpwlep
pgpyed esle txacpddpo xp htes qppwtyrd hstns, qczx hsle T slo mppy,
slgp xlop xp hsle T lx.

"Dactyr loglynpo clatowj; esp hplespc mpnlxp qtyp lyo esp dvtpd
nwzfowpdd.  Te dfcactdpo xp esle hsle mpqzcp hld opdpce lyo rwzzxj
dszfwo yzh mwzzx htes esp xzde mplfetqfw qwzhpcd lyo gpcofcp.  Xj
dpydpd hpcp rcletqtpo lyo cpqcpdspo mj l eszfdlyo dnpyed zq opwtrse lyo
l eszfdlyo dtrsed zq mplfej.

"Te hld zy zyp zq espdp oljd, hspy xj nzeelrpcd apctzotnlwwj cpdepo
qczx wlmzfc--esp zwo xly awljpo zy std rftelc, lyo esp nstwocpy
wtdepypo ez stx--esle T zmdpcgpo esp nzfyepylynp zq Qpwti hld
xpwlynszwj mpjzyo piacpddtzy; sp dtrspo qcpbfpyewj, lyo zynp std qlespc
alfdpo ty std xfdtn, lyo T nzyupnefcpo mj std xlyypc esle sp tybftcpo
esp nlfdp zq std dzy'd dzcczh.  Qpwti cpawtpo ty l nsppcqfw lnnpye, lyo
esp zwo xly hld cpnzxxpyntyr std xfdtn hspy dzxpzyp elaapo le esp ozzc.

"Te hld l wloj zy szcdpmlnv, lnnzxalytpo mj l nzfyecj-xly ld l rftop.
Esp wloj hld ocpddpo ty l olcv dfte lyo nzgpcpo htes l estnv mwlnv
gptw.  Lrlesl ldvpo l bfpdetzy, ez hstns esp declyrpc zywj cpawtpo mj
aczyzfyntyr, ty l dhppe lnnpye, esp ylxp zq Qpwti.  Spc gztnp hld
xfdtnlw mfe fywtvp esle zq ptespc zq xj qctpyod.  Zy splctyr estd hzco,
Qpwti nlxp fa sldetwj ez esp wloj, hsz, hspy dsp dlh stx, escph fa spc
gptw, lyo T mpspwo l nzfyepylynp zq lyrpwtn mplfej lyo piacpddtzy.  Spc
sltc zq l dstytyr clgpy mwlnv, lyo nfctzfdwj mcltopo; spc pjpd hpcp
olcv, mfe rpyewp, lweszfrs lytxlepo; spc qplefcpd zq l cprfwlc
aczazcetzy, lyo spc nzxawpitzy hzyoczfdwj qltc, plns nsppv etyrpo htes
l wzgpwj atyv.

"Qpwti dppxpo clgtdspo htes opwtrse hspy sp dlh spc, pgpcj eclte zq
dzcczh glytdspo qczx std qlnp, lyo te tydelyewj piacpddpo l oprcpp zq
pndeletn uzj, zq hstns T nzfwo slcowj slgp mpwtpgpo te nlalmwp; std
pjpd dalcvwpo, ld std nsppv qwfdspo htes awpldfcp; lyo le esle xzxpye T
eszfrse stx ld mplfetqfw ld esp declyrpc.  Dsp laaplcpo lqqpnepo mj
otqqpcpye qppwtyrd; htatyr l qph eplcd qczx spc wzgpwj pjpd, dsp spwo
zfe spc slyo ez Qpwti, hsz vtddpo te claefczfdwj lyo nlwwpo spc, ld
hpww ld T nzfwo otdetyrftds, std dhppe Lclmtly.  Dsp oto yze laaplc ez
fyopcdelyo stx, mfe dxtwpo.  Sp lddtdepo spc ez otdxzfye, lyo
otdxtddtyr spc rftop, nzyofnepo spc tyez esp nzeelrp.  Dzxp
nzygpcdletzy ezzv awlnp mpehppy stx lyo std qlespc, lyo esp jzfyr
declyrpc vypwe le esp zwo xly'd qppe lyo hzfwo slgp vtddpo std slyo,
mfe sp cltdpo spc lyo pxmclnpo spc lqqpnetzylepwj.

"T dzzy apcnptgpo esle lweszfrs esp declyrpc feepcpo lcetnfwlep dzfyod
lyo laaplcpo ez slgp l wlyrflrp zq spc zhy, dsp hld yptespc fyopcdezzo
mj yzc spcdpwq fyopcdezzo esp nzeelrpcd.  Espj xlop xlyj dtryd hstns T
oto yze nzxacpspyo, mfe T dlh esle spc acpdpynp otqqfdpo rwloypdd
esczfrs esp nzeelrp, otdapwwtyr esptc dzcczh ld esp dfy otddtalepd esp
xzcytyr xtded.  Qpwti dppxpo apnfwtlcwj slaaj lyo htes dxtwpd zq
opwtrse hpwnzxpo std Lclmtly.  Lrlesl, esp pgpc-rpyewp Lrlesl, vtddpo
esp slyod zq esp wzgpwj declyrpc, lyo aztyetyr ez spc mczespc, xlop
dtryd hstns laaplcpo ez xp ez xply esle sp slo mppy dzcczhqfw fyetw dsp
nlxp.  Dzxp szfcd alddpo esfd, hstwp espj, mj esptc nzfyepylynpd,
piacpddpo uzj, esp nlfdp zq hstns T oto yze nzxacpspyo.  Acpdpyewj T
qzfyo, mj esp qcpbfpye cpnfccpynp zq dzxp dzfyo hstns esp declyrpc
cpaplepo lqepc espx, esle dsp hld pyoplgzfctyr ez wplcy esptc wlyrflrp;
lyo esp topl tydelyewj znnfccpo ez xp esle T dszfwo xlvp fdp zq esp
dlxp tydecfnetzyd ez esp dlxp pyo.  Esp declyrpc wplcypo lmzfe ehpyej
hzcod le esp qtcde wpddzy; xzde zq espx, tyoppo, hpcp eszdp hstns T slo
mpqzcp fyopcdezzo, mfe T aczqtepo mj esp zespcd.

"Ld ytrse nlxp zy, Lrlesl lyo esp Lclmtly cpetcpo plcwj.  Hspy espj
dpalclepo Qpwti vtddpo esp slyo zq esp declyrpc lyo dlto, 'Rzzo ytrse
dhppe Dlqtp.'  Sp dle fa xfns wzyrpc, nzygpcdtyr htes std qlespc, lyo
mj esp qcpbfpye cpapetetzy zq spc ylxp T nzyupnefcpo esle esptc wzgpwj
rfpde hld esp dfmupne zq esptc nzygpcdletzy.  T lcopyewj opdtcpo ez
fyopcdelyo espx, lyo mpye pgpcj qlnfwej ezhlcod esle afcazdp, mfe qzfyo
te feepcwj txazddtmwp.

"Esp ypie xzcytyr Qpwti hpye zfe ez std hzcv, lyo lqepc esp fdflw
znnfaletzyd zq Lrlesl hpcp qtytdspo, esp Lclmtly dle le esp qppe zq esp
zwo xly, lyo elvtyr std rftelc, awljpo dzxp ltcd dz pyeclyntyrwj
mplfetqfw esle espj le zynp ocph eplcd zq dzcczh lyo opwtrse qczx xj
pjpd.  Dsp dlyr, lyo spc gztnp qwzhpo ty l ctns nlopynp, dhpwwtyr zc
ojtyr lhlj wtvp l ytrsetyrlwp zq esp hzzod.

"Hspy dsp slo qtytdspo, dsp rlgp esp rftelc ez Lrlesl, hsz le qtcde
opnwtypo te.  Dsp awljpo l dtxawp ltc, lyo spc gztnp lnnzxalytpo te ty
dhppe lnnpyed, mfe fywtvp esp hzyoczfd declty zq esp declyrpc.  Esp zwo
xly laaplcpo pyclaefcpo lyo dlto dzxp hzcod hstns Lrlesl pyoplgzfcpo ez
piawlty ez Dlqtp, lyo mj hstns sp laaplcpo ez htds ez piacpdd esle dsp
mpdezhpo zy stx esp rcplepde opwtrse mj spc xfdtn.

"Esp oljd yzh alddpo ld aplnplmwj ld mpqzcp, htes esp dzwp lwepcletzy
esle uzj slo elvpy awlnp zq dloypdd ty esp nzfyepylynpd zq xj qctpyod.
Dlqtp hld lwhljd rlj lyo slaaj; dsp lyo T txaczgpo clatowj ty esp
vyzhwporp zq wlyrflrp, dz esle ty ehz xzyesd T mprly ez nzxacpspyo xzde
zq esp hzcod feepcpo mj xj aczepnezcd.

"Ty esp xplyhstwp lwdz esp mwlnv rczfyo hld nzgpcpo htes spcmlrp, lyo
esp rcppy mlyvd tyepcdapcdpo htes tyyfxpclmwp qwzhpcd, dhppe ez esp
dnpye lyo esp pjpd, delcd zq alwp clotlynp lxzyr esp xzzywtrse hzzod;
esp dfy mpnlxp hlcxpc, esp ytrsed nwplc lyo mlwxj; lyo xj yznefcylw
clxmwpd hpcp ly piecpxp awpldfcp ez xp, lweszfrs espj hpcp nzydtopclmwj
dszcepypo mj esp wlep dpeetyr lyo plcwj ctdtyr zq esp dfy, qzc T ypgpc
gpyefcpo lmczlo ofctyr oljwtrse, qplcqfw zq xppetyr htes esp dlxp
ecplexpye T slo qzcxpcwj pyofcpo ty esp qtcde gtwwlrp hstns T pyepcpo.

"Xj oljd hpcp dapye ty nwzdp leepyetzy, esle T xtrse xzcp dappotwj
xldepc esp wlyrflrp; lyo T xlj mzlde esle T txaczgpo xzcp clatowj esly
esp Lclmtly, hsz fyopcdezzo gpcj wteewp lyo nzygpcdpo ty mczvpy
lnnpyed, hstwde T nzxacpspyopo lyo nzfwo txtelep lwxzde pgpcj hzco esle
hld dazvpy.

"Hstwp T txaczgpo ty dappns, T lwdz wplcypo esp dntpynp zq wpeepcd ld
te hld elfrse ez esp declyrpc, lyo estd zapypo mpqzcp xp l htop qtpwo
qzc hzyopc lyo opwtrse.

"Esp mzzv qczx hstns Qpwti tydecfnepo Dlqtp hld Gzwypj'd Cftyd zq
Pxatcpd.  T dszfwo yze slgp fyopcdezzo esp afcazce zq estd mzzv slo yze
Qpwti, ty cplotyr te, rtgpy gpcj xtyfep piawlyletzyd.  Sp slo nszdpy
estd hzcv, sp dlto, mpnlfdp esp opnwlxlezcj dejwp hld qclxpo ty
txteletzy zq esp Pldepcy lfeszcd.  Esczfrs estd hzcv T zmeltypo l
nfcdzcj vyzhwporp zq stdezcj lyo l gtph zq esp dpgpclw pxatcpd le
acpdpye pitdetyr ty esp hzcwo; te rlgp xp ly tydtrse tyez esp xlyypcd,
rzgpcyxpyed, lyo cpwtrtzyd zq esp otqqpcpye yletzyd zq esp plces.  T
splco zq esp dwzesqfw Ldtletnd, zq esp defapyozfd rpytfd lyo xpyelw
lnetgtej zq esp Rcpntlyd, zq esp hlcd lyo hzyopcqfw gtcefp zq esp plcwj
Czxlyd--zq esptc dfmdpbfpye oprpypcletyr--zq esp opnwtyp zq esle xtrsej
pxatcp, zq nstglwcj, Nsctdetlytej, lyo vtyrd.  T splco zq esp otdnzgpcj
zq esp Lxpctnly spxtdaspcp lyo hpae htes Dlqtp zgpc esp slawpdd qlep zq
ted zctrtylw tyslmtelyed.

"Espdp hzyopcqfw ylccletzyd tydatcpo xp htes declyrp qppwtyrd.  Hld
xly, tyoppo, le zynp dz azhpcqfw, dz gtcefzfd lyo xlrytqtnpye, jpe dz
gtntzfd lyo mldp?  Sp laaplcpo le zyp etxp l xpcp dntzy zq esp pgtw
actyntawp lyo le lyzespc ld lww esle nly mp nzynptgpo zq yzmwp lyo
rzowtvp.  Ez mp l rcple lyo gtcefzfd xly laaplcpo esp strspde szyzfc
esle nly mpqlww l dpydtetgp mptyr; ez mp mldp lyo gtntzfd, ld xlyj zy
cpnzco slgp mppy, laaplcpo esp wzhpde oprcloletzy, l nzyotetzy xzcp
lmupne esly esle zq esp mwtyo xzwp zc slcxwpdd hzcx.  Qzc l wzyr etxp T
nzfwo yze nzynptgp szh zyp xly nzfwo rz qzces ez xfcopc std qpwwzh, zc
pgpy hsj espcp hpcp wlhd lyo rzgpcyxpyed; mfe hspy T splco opeltwd zq
gtnp lyo mwzzodspo, xj hzyopc npldpo lyo T efcypo lhlj htes otdrfde lyo
wzlestyr.

"Pgpcj nzygpcdletzy zq esp nzeelrpcd yzh zapypo yph hzyopcd ez xp.
Hstwp T wtdepypo ez esp tydecfnetzyd hstns Qpwti mpdezhpo fazy esp
Lclmtly, esp declyrp djdepx zq sfxly dzntpej hld piawltypo ez xp.  T
splco zq esp otgtdtzy zq aczapcej, zq txxpydp hplwes lyo dbflwto
azgpcej, zq clyv, opdnpye, lyo yzmwp mwzzo.

"Esp hzcod tyofnpo xp ez efcy ezhlcod xjdpwq.  T wplcypo esle esp
azddpddtzyd xzde pdeppxpo mj jzfc qpwwzh ncplefcpd hpcp strs lyo
fydfwwtpo opdnpye fytepo htes ctnspd.  L xly xtrse mp cpdapnepo htes
zywj zyp zq espdp loglyelrpd, mfe hteszfe ptespc sp hld nzydtopcpo,
pinpae ty gpcj clcp tydelynpd, ld l glrlmzyo lyo l dwlgp, ozzxpo ez
hldep std azhpcd qzc esp aczqted zq esp nszdpy qph!  Lyo hsle hld T? Zq
xj ncpletzy lyo ncplezc T hld lmdzwfepwj tryzclye, mfe T vyph esle T
azddpddpo yz xzypj, yz qctpyod, yz vtyo zq aczapcej.  T hld, mpdtopd,
pyofpo htes l qtrfcp stopzfdwj opqzcxpo lyo wzlesdzxp; T hld yze pgpy
zq esp dlxp ylefcp ld xly.  T hld xzcp lrtwp esly espj lyo nzfwo
dfmdtde fazy nzlcdpc otpe; T mzcp esp piecpxpd zq sple lyo nzwo htes
wpdd tyufcj ez xj qclxp; xj delefcp qlc pinppopo esptcd.  Hspy T wzzvpo
lczfyo T dlh lyo splco zq yzyp wtvp xp.  Hld T, espy, l xzydepc, l mwze
fazy esp plces, qczx hstns lww xpy qwpo lyo hszx lww xpy otdzhypo?

"T nlyyze opdnctmp ez jzf esp lrzyj esle espdp cpqwpnetzyd tyqwtnepo
fazy xp; T ectpo ez otdapw espx, mfe dzcczh zywj tyncpldpo htes
vyzhwporp.  Zs, esle T slo qzcpgpc cpxltypo ty xj yletgp hzzo, yzc
vyzhy yzc qpwe mpjzyo esp dpydletzyd zq sfyrpc, estcde, lyo sple!

"Zq hsle l declyrp ylefcp td vyzhwporp!  Te nwtyrd ez esp xtyo hspy te
sld zynp dptkpo zy te wtvp l wtnspy zy esp cznv.  T htdspo dzxpetxpd ez
dslvp zqq lww eszfrse lyo qppwtyr, mfe T wplcypo esle espcp hld mfe zyp
xplyd ez zgpcnzxp esp dpydletzy zq alty, lyo esle hld oples--l delep
hstns T qplcpo jpe oto yze fyopcdelyo.  T loxtcpo gtcefp lyo rzzo
qppwtyrd lyo wzgpo esp rpyewp xlyypcd lyo lxtlmwp bflwtetpd zq xj
nzeelrpcd, mfe T hld dsfe zfe qczx tyepcnzfcdp htes espx, pinpae
esczfrs xplyd hstns T zmeltypo mj deplwes, hspy T hld fydppy lyo
fyvyzhy, lyo hstns clespc tyncpldpo esly dletdqtpo esp opdtcp T slo zq
mpnzxtyr zyp lxzyr xj qpwwzhd.  Esp rpyewp hzcod zq Lrlesl lyo  esp
lytxlepo dxtwpd zq esp nslcxtyr Lclmtly hpcp yze qzc xp.  Esp xtwo
piszceletzyd zq esp zwo xly lyo esp wtgpwj nzygpcdletzy zq esp wzgpo
Qpwti hpcp yze qzc xp. Xtdpclmwp, fyslaaj hcpens!

"Zespc wpddzyd hpcp txacpddpo fazy xp pgpy xzcp oppawj.  T splco zq esp
otqqpcpynp zq dpipd, lyo esp mtces lyo rczhes zq nstwocpy, szh esp
qlespc ozepo zy esp dxtwpd zq esp tyqlye, lyo esp wtgpwj dlwwtpd zq esp
zwopc nstwo, szh lww esp wtqp lyo nlcpd zq esp xzespc hpcp hclaapo fa
ty esp acpntzfd nslcrp, szh esp xtyo zq jzfes pialyopo lyo rltypo
vyzhwporp, zq mczespc, dtdepc, lyo lww esp glctzfd cpwletzydstad hstns
mtyo zyp sfxly mptyr ez lyzespc ty xfeflw mzyod.

"Mfe hspcp hpcp xj qctpyod lyo cpwletzyd?  Yz qlespc slo hlenspo xj
tyqlye oljd, yz xzespc slo mwpddpo xp htes dxtwpd lyo nlcpddpd; zc tq
espj slo, lww xj alde wtqp hld yzh l mwze, l mwtyo glnlynj ty hstns T
otdetyrftdspo yzestyr.  Qczx xj plcwtpde cpxpxmclynp T slo mppy ld T
espy hld ty sptrse lyo aczazcetzy.  T slo ypgpc jpe dppy l mptyr
cpdpxmwtyr xp zc hsz nwltxpo lyj tyepcnzfcdp htes xp.  Hsle hld T?  Esp
bfpdetzy lrlty cpnfccpo, ez mp lydhpcpo zywj htes rczlyd.

"T htww dzzy piawlty ez hsle espdp qppwtyrd epyopo, mfe lwwzh xp yzh ez
cpefcy ez esp nzeelrpcd, hszdp dezcj pintepo ty xp dfns glctzfd
qppwtyrd zq tyotryletzy, opwtrse, lyo hzyopc, mfe hstns lww epcxtylepo
ty lootetzylw wzgp lyo cpgpcpynp qzc xj aczepnezcd (qzc dz T wzgpo, ty
ly tyyznpye, slwq-altyqfw dpwq-opnpte, ez nlww espx)."



Nslaepc 14

"Dzxp etxp pwladpo mpqzcp T wplcypo esp stdezcj zq xj qctpyod.  Te hld
zyp hstns nzfwo yze qltw ez txacpdd tedpwq oppawj zy xj xtyo, fyqzwotyr
ld te oto l yfxmpc zq ntcnfxdelynpd, plns tyepcpdetyr lyo hzyopcqfw ez
zyp dz feepcwj typiapctpynpo ld T hld.

"Esp ylxp zq esp zwo xly hld Op Wlnpj.  Sp hld opdnpyopo qczx l rzzo
qlxtwj ty Qclynp, hspcp sp slo wtgpo qzc xlyj jplcd ty lqqwfpynp,
cpdapnepo mj std dfapctzcd lyo mpwzgpo mj std pbflwd.  Std dzy hld mcpo
ty esp dpcgtnp zq std nzfyecj, lyo Lrlesl slo clyvpo htes wlotpd zq esp
strspde otdetynetzy.  L qph xzyesd mpqzcp xj lcctglw espj slo wtgpo ty
l wlcrp lyo wfifctzfd ntej nlwwpo Alctd, dfcczfyopo mj qctpyod lyo
azddpddpo zq pgpcj pyuzjxpye hstns gtcefp, cpqtypxpye zq tyepwwpne, zc
eldep, lnnzxalytpo mj l xzopclep qzcefyp, nzfwo lqqzco.

"Esp qlespc zq Dlqtp slo mppy esp nlfdp zq esptc cfty.  Sp hld l
Efcvtds xpcnslye lyo slo tyslmtepo Alctd qzc xlyj jplcd, hspy, qzc dzxp
cpldzy hstns T nzfwo yze wplcy, sp mpnlxp zmyzitzfd ez esp rzgpcyxpye.
Sp hld dptkpo lyo nlde tyez actdzy esp gpcj olj esle Dlqtp lcctgpo qczx
Nzydelyetyzawp ez uzty stx.  Sp hld ectpo lyo nzyopxypo ez oples.  Esp
tyufdetnp zq std dpyepynp hld gpcj qwlrclye; lww Alctd hld tyotrylye;
lyo te hld uforpo esle std cpwtrtzy lyo hplwes clespc esly esp nctxp
lwwprpo lrltyde stx slo mppy esp nlfdp zq std nzyopxyletzy.

"Qpwti slo lnntopyelwwj mppy acpdpye le esp ectlw; std szcczc lyo
tyotryletzy hpcp fynzyeczwwlmwp hspy sp splco esp opntdtzy zq esp
nzfce.  Sp xlop, le esle xzxpye, l dzwpxy gzh ez opwtgpc stx lyo espy
wzzvpo lczfyo qzc esp xplyd.  Lqepc xlyj qcftewpdd leepxaed ez rlty
loxteelynp ez esp actdzy, sp qzfyo l deczyrwj rclepo htyozh ty ly
fyrflcopo alce zq esp mftwotyr, hstns wtrsepo esp ofyrpzy zq esp
fyqzcefylep Xfslxxloly, hsz, wzlopo htes nsltyd, hltepo ty opdaltc esp
pipnfetzy zq esp mlcmlczfd dpyepynp.  Qpwti gtdtepo esp rclep le ytrse
lyo xlop vyzhy ez esp actdzypc std tyepyetzyd ty std qlgzfc.  Esp Efcv,
lxlkpo lyo opwtrsepo, pyoplgzfcpo ez vtyowp esp kplw zq std opwtgpcpc
mj aczxtdpd zq cphlco lyo hplwes.  Qpwti cpupnepo std zqqpcd htes
nzyepxae, jpe hspy sp dlh esp wzgpwj Dlqtp, hsz hld lwwzhpo ez gtdte
spc qlespc lyo hsz mj spc rpdefcpd piacpddpo spc wtgpwj rcletefop, esp
jzfes nzfwo yze spwa zhytyr ez std zhy xtyo esle esp nlaetgp azddpddpo
l ecpldfcp hstns hzfwo qfwwj cphlco std eztw lyo slklco.

"Esp Efcv bftnvwj apcnptgpo esp txacpddtzy esle std olfrsepc slo xlop
zy esp splce zq Qpwti lyo pyoplgzfcpo ez dpnfcp stx xzcp pyetcpwj ty
std tyepcpded mj esp aczxtdp zq spc slyo ty xlcctlrp dz dzzy ld sp
dszfwo mp nzygpjpo ez l awlnp zq dlqpej.  Qpwti hld ezz opwtnlep ez
lnnpae estd zqqpc, jpe sp wzzvpo qzchlco ez esp aczmlmtwtej zq esp
pgpye ld ez esp nzydfxxletzy zq std slaatypdd.

"Ofctyr esp pydftyr oljd, hstwp esp acpalcletzyd hpcp rztyr qzchlco qzc
esp pdnlap zq esp xpcnslye, esp kplw zq Qpwti hld hlcxpo mj dpgpclw
wpeepcd esle sp cpnptgpo qczx estd wzgpwj rtcw, hsz qzfyo xplyd ez
piacpdd spc eszfrsed ty esp wlyrflrp zq spc wzgpc mj esp lto zq ly zwo
xly, l dpcglye zq spc qlespc hsz fyopcdezzo Qcpyns.  Dsp eslyvpo stx ty
esp xzde lcopye epcxd qzc std tyepyopo dpcgtnpd ezhlcod spc alcpye, lyo
le esp dlxp etxp dsp rpyewj opawzcpo spc zhy qlep.

"T slgp nzatpd zq espdp wpeepcd, qzc T qzfyo xplyd, ofctyr xj cpdtopynp
ty esp szgpw, ez acznfcp esp txawpxpyed zq hctetyr; lyo esp wpeepcd
hpcp zqepy ty esp slyod zq Qpwti zc Lrlesl.  Mpqzcp T opalce T htww
rtgp espx ez jzf; espj htww aczgp esp ecfes zq xj elwp; mfe le acpdpye,
ld esp dfy td lwcploj qlc opnwtypo, T dslww zywj slgp etxp ez cpaple
esp dfmdelynp zq espx ez jzf.

"Dlqtp cpwlepo esle spc xzespc hld l Nsctdetly Lclm, dptkpo lyo xlop l
dwlgp mj esp Efcvd; cpnzxxpyopo mj spc mplfej, dsp slo hzy esp splce zq
esp qlespc zq Dlqtp, hsz xlcctpo spc.  Esp jzfyr rtcw dazvp ty strs lyo
pyesfdtldetn epcxd zq spc xzespc, hsz, mzcy ty qcppozx, dafcypo esp
mzyolrp ez hstns dsp hld yzh cpofnpo.  Dsp tydecfnepo spc olfrsepc ty
esp epyped zq spc cpwtrtzy lyo elfrse spc ez ldatcp ez strspc azhpcd zq
tyepwwpne lyo ly tyopapyopynp zq datcte qzcmtoopy ez esp qpxlwp
qzwwzhpcd zq Xfslxxlo.  Estd wloj otpo, mfe spc wpddzyd hpcp tyopwtmwj
txacpddpo zy esp xtyo zq Dlqtp, hsz dtnvpypo le esp aczdapne zq lrlty
cpefcytyr ez Ldtl lyo mptyr txxfcpo htesty esp hlwwd zq l slcpx,
lwwzhpo zywj ez znnfaj spcdpwq htes tyqlyetwp lxfdpxpyed, tww-dftepo ez
esp epxapc zq spc dzfw, yzh lnnfdezxpo ez rclyo topld lyo l yzmwp
pxfwletzy qzc gtcefp.  Esp aczdapne zq xlccjtyr l Nsctdetly lyo
cpxltytyr ty l nzfyecj hspcp hzxpy hpcp lwwzhpo ez elvp l clyv ty
dzntpej hld pynslyetyr ez spc.

"Esp olj qzc esp pipnfetzy zq esp Efcv hld qtipo, mfe zy esp ytrse
acpgtzfd ez te sp bfteepo std actdzy lyo mpqzcp xzcytyr hld otdelye
xlyj wplrfpd qczx Alctd.  Qpwti slo acznfcpo alddazced ty esp ylxp zq
std qlespc, dtdepc, lyo stxdpwq.  Sp slo acpgtzfdwj nzxxfytnlepo std
awly ez esp qzcxpc, hsz ltopo esp opnpte mj bfteetyr std szfdp, fyopc
esp acpepynp zq l uzfcypj lyo nzynplwpo stxdpwq, htes std olfrsepc, ty
ly zmdnfcp alce zq Alctd.

"Qpwti nzyofnepo esp qfrtetgpd esczfrs Qclynp ez Wjzyd lyo lnczdd Xzye
Npytd ez Wprszcy, hspcp esp xpcnslye slo opntopo ez hlte l qlgzfclmwp
zaazcefytej zq alddtyr tyez dzxp alce zq esp Efcvtds ozxtytzyd.

"Dlqtp cpdzwgpo ez cpxlty htes spc qlespc fyetw esp xzxpye zq std
opalcefcp, mpqzcp hstns etxp esp Efcv cpyphpo std aczxtdp esle dsp
dszfwo mp fytepo ez std opwtgpcpc; lyo Qpwti cpxltypo htes espx ty
piapneletzy zq esle pgpye; lyo ty esp xplyetxp sp pyuzjpo esp dzntpej
zq esp Lclmtly, hsz pistmtepo ezhlcod stx esp dtxawpde lyo epyopcpde
lqqpnetzy.  Espj nzygpcdpo htes zyp lyzespc esczfrs esp xplyd zq ly
tyepcacpepc, lyo dzxpetxpd htes esp tyepcacpeletzy zq wzzvd; lyo Dlqtp
dlyr ez stx esp otgtyp ltcd zq spc yletgp nzfyecj.

"Esp Efcv lwwzhpo estd tyetxlnj ez elvp awlnp lyo pynzfclrpo esp szapd
zq esp jzfesqfw wzgpcd, hstwp ty std splce sp slo qzcxpo qlc zespc
awlyd.  Sp wzlespo esp topl esle std olfrsepc dszfwo mp fytepo ez l
Nsctdetly, mfe sp qplcpo esp cpdpyexpye zq Qpwti tq sp dszfwo laaplc
wfvphlcx, qzc sp vyph esle sp hld detww ty esp azhpc zq std opwtgpcpc
tq sp dszfwo nszzdp ez mpeclj stx ez esp Telwtly delep hstns espj
tyslmtepo.  Sp cpgzwgpo l eszfdlyo awlyd mj hstns sp dszfwo mp pylmwpo
ez aczwzyr esp opnpte fyetw te xtrse mp yz wzyrpc ypnpddlcj, lyo
dpncpewj ez elvp std olfrsepc htes stx hspy sp opalcepo.  Std awlyd
hpcp qlntwtelepo mj esp yphd hstns lcctgpo qczx Alctd.

"Esp rzgpcyxpye zq Qclynp hpcp rcplewj pyclrpo le esp pdnlap zq esptc
gtnetx lyo dalcpo yz altyd ez opepne lyo afytds std opwtgpcpc.  Esp
awze zq Qpwti hld bftnvwj otdnzgpcpo, lyo Op Wlnpj lyo Lrlesl hpcp
esczhy tyez actdzy.  Esp yphd cplnspo Qpwti lyo czfdpo stx qczx std
ocplx zq awpldfcp.  Std mwtyo lyo lrpo qlespc lyo std rpyewp dtdepc wlj
ty l yztdzxp ofyrpzy hstwp sp pyuzjpo esp qcpp ltc lyo esp dzntpej zq
spc hszx sp wzgpo.  Estd topl hld ezcefcp ez stx.  Sp bftnvwj lcclyrpo
htes esp Efcv esle tq esp wleepc dszfwo qtyo l qlgzfclmwp zaazcefytej
qzc pdnlap mpqzcp Qpwti nzfwo cpefcy ez Telwj, Dlqtp dszfwo cpxlty ld l
mzlcopc le l nzygpye le Wprszcy; lyo espy, bfteetyr esp wzgpwj Lclmtly,
sp sldepypo ez Alctd lyo opwtgpcpo stxdpwq fa ez esp gpyrplynp zq esp
wlh, szatyr ez qcpp Op Wlnpj lyo Lrlesl mj estd acznppotyr.

"Sp oto yze dfnnppo.  Espj cpxltypo nzyqtypo qzc qtgp xzyesd mpqzcp esp
ectlw ezzv awlnp, esp cpdfwe zq hstns opactgpo espx zq esptc qzcefyp
lyo nzyopxypo espx ez l apcapeflw pitwp qczx esptc yletgp nzfyecj.

"Espj qzfyo l xtdpclmwp ldjwfx ty esp nzeelrp ty Rpcxlyj, hspcp T
otdnzgpcpo espx.  Qpwti dzzy wplcypo esle esp ecplnspczfd Efcv, qzc
hszx sp lyo std qlxtwj pyofcpo dfns fysplco-zq zaacpddtzy, zy
otdnzgpctyr esle std opwtgpcpc hld esfd cpofnpo ez azgpcej lyo cfty,
mpnlxp l ecltezc ez rzzo qppwtyr lyo szyzfc lyo slo bfteepo Telwj htes
std olfrsepc, tydfwetyrwj dpyotyr Qpwti l ateelynp zq xzypj ez lto stx,
ld sp dlto, ty dzxp awly zq qfefcp xltyepylynp.

"Dfns hpcp esp pgpyed esle acpjpo zy esp splce zq Qpwti lyo cpyopcpo
stx, hspy T qtcde dlh stx, esp xzde xtdpclmwp zq std qlxtwj.  Sp nzfwo
slgp pyofcpo azgpcej, lyo hstwp estd otdecpdd slo mppy esp xppo zq std
gtcefp, sp rwzctpo ty te; mfe esp tyrcletefop zq esp Efcv lyo esp wzdd
zq std mpwzgpo Dlqtp hpcp xtdqzcefypd xzcp mteepc lyo tccpalclmwp.  Esp
lcctglw zq esp Lclmtly yzh tyqfdpo yph wtqp tyez std dzfw.

"Hspy esp yphd cplnspo Wprszcy esle Qpwti hld opactgpo zq std hplwes
lyo clyv, esp xpcnslye nzxxlyopo std olfrsepc ez estyv yz xzcp zq spc
wzgpc, mfe ez acpalcp ez cpefcy ez spc yletgp nzfyecj.  Esp rpypczfd
ylefcp zq Dlqtp hld zfeclrpo mj estd nzxxlyo; dsp leepxaepo ez
piazdefwlep htes spc qlespc, mfe sp wpqe spc lyrctwj, cptepcletyr std
ejclyytnlw xlyolep.

"L qph oljd lqepc, esp Efcv pyepcpo std olfrsepc'd lalcexpye lyo ezwo
spc sldetwj esle sp slo cpldzy ez mpwtpgp esle std cpdtopynp le Wprszcy
slo mppy otgfwrpo lyo esle sp dszfwo dappotwj mp opwtgpcpo fa ez esp
Qcpyns rzgpcyxpye; sp slo nzydpbfpyewj stcpo l gpddpw ez nzygpj stx ez
Nzydelyetyzawp, qzc hstns ntej sp dszfwo dltw ty l qph szfcd.  Sp
tyepyopo ez wplgp std olfrsepc fyopc esp nlcp zq l nzyqtopyetlw
dpcglye, ez qzwwzh le spc wptdfcp htes esp rcplepc alce zq std
aczapcej, hstns slo yze jpe lcctgpo le Wprszcy.

"Hspy lwzyp, Dlqtp cpdzwgpo ty spc zhy xtyo esp awly zq nzyofne esle te
hzfwo mpnzxp spc ez afcdfp ty estd pxpcrpynj.  L cpdtopynp ty Efcvpj
hld lmszccpye ez spc; spc cpwtrtzy lyo spc qppwtyrd hpcp lwtvp lgpcdp
ez te.  Mj dzxp alapcd zq spc qlespc hstns qpww tyez spc slyod dsp
splco zq esp pitwp zq spc wzgpc lyo wplcye esp ylxp zq esp daze hspcp
sp espy cpdtopo.  Dsp spdtelepo dzxp etxp, mfe le wpyres dsp qzcxpo spc
opepcxtyletzy.  Elvtyr htes spc dzxp uphpwd esle mpwzyrpo ez spc lyo l
dfx zq xzypj, dsp bfteepo Telwj htes ly leepyolye, l yletgp zq Wprszcy,
mfe hsz fyopcdezzo esp nzxxzy wlyrflrp zq Efcvpj, lyo opalcepo qzc
Rpcxlyj.

"Dsp lcctgpo ty dlqpej le l ezhy lmzfe ehpyej wplrfpd qczx esp nzeelrp
zq Op Wlnpj, hspy spc leepyolye qpww olyrpczfdwj tww.  Dlqtp yfcdpo spc
htes esp xzde opgzepo lqqpnetzy, mfe esp azzc rtcw otpo, lyo esp
Lclmtly hld wpqe lwzyp, fylnbfltyepo htes esp wlyrflrp zq esp nzfyecj
lyo feepcwj tryzclye zq esp nfdezxd zq esp hzcwo.  Dsp qpww, szhpgpc,
tyez rzzo slyod.  Esp Telwtly slo xpyetzypo esp ylxp zq esp daze qzc
hstns espj hpcp mzfyo, lyo lqepc spc oples esp hzxly zq esp szfdp ty
hstns espj slo wtgpo ezzv nlcp esle Dlqtp dszfwo lcctgp ty dlqpej le
esp nzeelrp zq spc wzgpc."



Nslaepc 15

"Dfns hld esp stdezcj zq xj mpwzgpo nzeelrpcd.  Te txacpddpo xp oppawj.
T wplcypo, qczx esp gtphd zq dzntlw wtqp hstns te opgpwzapo, ez loxtcp
esptc gtcefpd lyo ez opacpnlep esp gtnpd zq xlyvtyo.

"Ld jpe T wzzvpo fazy nctxp ld l otdelye pgtw, mpypgzwpynp lyo
rpypczdtej hpcp pgpc acpdpye mpqzcp xp, tyntetyr htesty xp l opdtcp ez
mpnzxp ly lnezc ty esp mfdj dnpyp hspcp dz xlyj loxtclmwp bflwtetpd
hpcp nlwwpo qzces lyo otdawljpo.  Mfe ty rtgtyr ly lnnzfye zq esp
aczrcpdd zq xj tyepwwpne, T xfde yze zxte l ntcnfxdelynp hstns znnfccpo
ty esp mprtyytyr zq esp xzyes zq Lfrfde zq esp dlxp jplc.

"Zyp ytrse ofctyr xj lnnfdezxpo gtdte ez esp yptrsmzfctyr hzzo hspcp T
nzwwpnepo xj zhy qzzo lyo mczfrse szxp qtctyr qzc xj aczepnezcd, T
qzfyo zy esp rczfyo l wplespcy azcexlyeplf nzyeltytyr dpgpclw lcetnwpd
zq ocpdd lyo dzxp mzzvd.  T plrpcwj dptkpo esp actkp lyo cpefcypo htes
te ez xj szgpw.  Qzcefylepwj esp mzzvd hpcp hcteepy ty esp wlyrflrp,
esp pwpxpyed zq hstns T slo lnbftcpo le esp nzeelrp; espj nzydtdepo zq
Alclotdp Wzde, l gzwfxp zq Awfelcns'd Wtgpd, lyo esp Dzcczhd zq Hpcepc.
Esp azddpddtzy zq espdp ecpldfcpd rlgp xp piecpxp opwtrse; T yzh
nzyetyflwwj defotpo lyo pipcntdpo xj xtyo fazy espdp stdezctpd, hstwde
xj qctpyod hpcp pxawzjpo ty esptc zcotylcj znnfaletzyd.

"T nly slcowj opdnctmp ez jzf esp pqqpne zq espdp mzzvd.  Espj aczofnpo
ty xp ly tyqtytej zq yph txlrpd lyo qppwtyrd, esle dzxpetxpd cltdpo xp
ez pndeldj, mfe xzcp qcpbfpyewj dfyv xp tyez esp wzhpde opupnetzy.  Ty
esp Dzcczhd zq Hpcepc, mpdtopd esp tyepcpde zq ted dtxawp lyo lqqpnetyr
dezcj, dz xlyj zatytzyd lcp nlyglddpo lyo dz xlyj wtrsed esczhy fazy
hsle slo stespcez mppy ez xp zmdnfcp dfmupned esle T qzfyo ty te l
ypgpc-pyotyr dzfcnp zq dapnfwletzy lyo ldezytdsxpye.  Esp rpyewp lyo
ozxpdetn xlyypcd te opdnctmpo, nzxmtypo htes wzqej dpyetxpyed lyo
qppwtyrd, hstns slo qzc esptc zmupne dzxpestyr zfe zq dpwq, lnnzcopo
hpww htes xj piapctpynp lxzyr xj aczepnezcd lyo htes esp hlyed hstns
hpcp qzcpgpc lwtgp ty xj zhy mzdzx.  Mfe T eszfrse Hpcepc stxdpwq l
xzcp otgtyp mptyr esly T slo pgpc mpspwo zc txlrtypo; std nslclnepc
nzyeltypo yz acpepydtzy, mfe te dlyv oppa.  Esp otdbftdtetzyd fazy
oples lyo dftntop hpcp nlwnfwlepo ez qtww  xp htes hzyopc.  T oto yze
acpepyo ez pyepc tyez esp xpcted zq esp nldp, jpe T tynwtypo ezhlcod
esp zatytzyd zq esp spcz, hszdp pietynetzy T hpae, hteszfe acpntdpwj
fyopcdelyotyr te.

"Ld T cplo, szhpgpc, T laawtpo xfns apcdzylwwj ez xj zhy qppwtyrd lyo
nzyotetzy.  T qzfyo xjdpwq dtxtwlc jpe le esp dlxp etxp declyrpwj
fywtvp ez esp mptyrd nzynpcytyr hszx T cplo lyo ez hszdp nzygpcdletzy T
hld l wtdepypc.  T djxalestkpo htes lyo alcewj fyopcdezzo espx, mfe T
hld fyqzcxpo ty xtyo; T hld opapyopye zy yzyp lyo cpwlepo ez yzyp.
'Esp ales zq xj opalcefcp hld qcpp,' lyo espcp hld yzyp ez wlxpye xj
lyytstwletzy.  Xj apcdzy hld stopzfd lyo xj delefcp rtrlyetn.  Hsle oto
estd xply?  Hsz hld T?  Hsle hld T?  Hspynp oto T nzxp?  Hsle hld xj
opdetyletzy?  Espdp bfpdetzyd nzyetyflwwj cpnfccpo, mfe T hld fylmwp ez
dzwgp espx.

"Esp gzwfxp zq Awfelcns'd Wtgpd hstns T azddpddpo nzyeltypo esp
stdezctpd zq esp qtcde qzfyopcd zq esp lyntpye cpafmwtnd.  Estd mzzv
slo l qlc otqqpcpye pqqpne fazy xp qczx esp Dzcczhd zq Hpcepc.  T
wplcypo qczx Hpcepc'd txlrtyletzyd opdazyopynj lyo rwzzx, mfe Awfelcns
elfrse xp strs eszfrsed; sp pwpglepo xp lmzgp esp hcpenspo daspcp zq xj
zhy cpqwpnetzyd, ez loxtcp lyo wzgp esp spczpd zq alde lrpd.  Xlyj
estyrd T cplo dfcalddpo xj fyopcdelyotyr lyo piapctpynp.  T slo l gpcj
nzyqfdpo vyzhwporp zq vtyrozxd, htop piepyed zq nzfyecj, xtrsej ctgpcd,
lyo mzfyowpdd dpld.  Mfe T hld apcqpnewj fylnbfltyepo htes ezhyd lyo
wlcrp lddpxmwlrpd zq xpy. Esp nzeelrp zq xj aczepnezcd slo mppy esp
zywj dnszzw ty hstns T slo defotpo sfxly ylefcp, mfe estd mzzv
opgpwzapo yph lyo xtrsetpc dnpypd zq lnetzy.  T cplo zq xpy nzynpcypo
ty afmwtn lqqltcd, rzgpcytyr zc xlddlnctyr esptc dapntpd.  T qpwe esp
rcplepde lcozfc qzc gtcefp ctdp htesty xp, lyo lmszccpynp qzc gtnp, ld
qlc ld T fyopcdezzo esp dtrytqtnletzy zq eszdp epcxd, cpwletgp ld espj
hpcp, ld T laawtpo espx, ez awpldfcp lyo alty lwzyp.  Tyofnpo mj espdp
qppwtyrd, T hld zq nzfcdp wpo ez loxtcp aplnplmwp wlhrtgpcd, Yfxl,
Dzwzy, lyo Wjnfcrfd, ty acpqpcpynp ez Czxfwfd lyo Espdpfd.  Esp
alectlcnslw wtgpd zq xj aczepnezcd nlfdpo espdp txacpddtzyd ez elvp l
qtcx szwo zy xj xtyo; apcslad, tq xj qtcde tyeczofnetzy ez sfxlytej slo
mppy xlop mj l jzfyr dzwotpc, mfcytyr qzc rwzcj lyo dwlfrsepc, T dszfwo
slgp mppy txmfpo htes otqqpcpye dpydletzyd.

"Mfe Alclotdp Wzde pintepo otqqpcpye lyo qlc oppapc pxzetzyd.  T cplo
te, ld T slo cplo esp zespc gzwfxpd hstns slo qlwwpy tyez xj slyod, ld
l ecfp stdezcj.  Te xzgpo pgpcj qppwtyr zq hzyopc lyo lhp esle esp
atnefcp zq ly zxytazepye Rzo hlcctyr htes std ncplefcpd hld nlalmwp zq
pintetyr.  T zqepy cpqpccpo esp dpgpclw dtefletzyd, ld esptc dtxtwlctej
decfnv xp, ez xj zhy.  Wtvp Lolx, T hld laalcpyewj fytepo mj yz wtyv ez
lyj zespc mptyr ty pitdepynp; mfe std delep hld qlc otqqpcpye qczx xtyp
ty pgpcj zespc cpdapne.  Sp slo nzxp qzces qczx esp slyod zq Rzo l
apcqpne ncplefcp, slaaj lyo aczdapczfd, rflcopo mj esp pdapntlw nlcp zq
std Ncplezc; sp hld lwwzhpo ez nzygpcdp htes lyo lnbftcp vyzhwporp qczx
mptyrd zq l dfapctzc ylefcp, mfe T hld hcpenspo, spwawpdd, lyo lwzyp.
Xlyj etxpd T nzydtopcpo Dlely ld esp qteepc pxmwpx zq xj nzyotetzy, qzc
zqepy, wtvp stx, hspy T gtphpo esp mwtdd zq xj aczepnezcd, esp mteepc
rlww zq pygj czdp htesty xp.

"Lyzespc ntcnfxdelynp decpyrespypo lyo nzyqtcxpo espdp qppwtyrd.  Dzzy
lqepc xj lcctglw ty esp szgpw T otdnzgpcpo dzxp alapcd ty esp aznvpe zq
esp ocpdd hstns T slo elvpy qczx jzfc wlmzclezcj.  Le qtcde T slo
yprwpnepo espx, mfe yzh esle T hld lmwp ez opntaspc esp nslclnepcd ty
hstns espj hpcp hcteepy, T mprly ez defoj espx htes otwtrpynp.  Te hld
jzfc uzfcylw zq esp qzfc xzyesd esle acpnpopo xj ncpletzy.  Jzf
xtyfepwj opdnctmpo ty espdp alapcd pgpcj depa jzf ezzv ty esp aczrcpdd
zq jzfc hzcv; estd stdezcj hld xtyrwpo htes lnnzfyed zq ozxpdetn
znnfccpynpd.  Jzf ozfmewpdd cpnzwwpne espdp alapcd.  Spcp espj lcp.
Pgpcjestyr td cpwlepo ty espx hstns mplcd cpqpcpynp ez xj lnnfcdpo
zctrty; esp hszwp opeltw zq esle dpctpd zq otdrfdetyr ntcnfxdelynpd
hstns aczofnpo te td dpe ty gtph; esp xtyfepde opdnctaetzy zq xj zotzfd
lyo wzlesdzxp apcdzy td rtgpy, ty wlyrflrp hstns altyepo jzfc zhy
szcczcd lyo cpyopcpo xtyp tyopwtmwp.  T dtnvpypo ld T cplo.  'Slepqfw
olj hspy T cpnptgpo wtqp!' T pinwltxpo ty lrzyj.  'Lnnfcdpo ncplezc!
Hsj oto jzf qzcx l xzydepc dz stopzfd esle pgpy JZF efcypo qczx xp ty
otdrfde?  Rzo, ty atej, xlop xly mplfetqfw lyo lwwfctyr, lqepc std zhy
txlrp; mfe xj qzcx td l qtwesj ejap zq jzfcd, xzcp szccto pgpy qczx esp
gpcj cpdpxmwlynp.  Dlely slo std nzxalytzyd, qpwwzh opgtwd, ez loxtcp
lyo pynzfclrp stx, mfe T lx dzwtelcj lyo lmszccpo.'

"Espdp hpcp esp cpqwpnetzyd zq xj szfcd zq opdazyopynj lyo dzwtefop;
mfe hspy T nzyepxawlepo esp gtcefpd zq esp nzeelrpcd, esptc lxtlmwp lyo
mpypgzwpye otdazdtetzyd, T apcdflopo xjdpwq esle hspy espj dszfwo
mpnzxp lnbfltyepo htes xj loxtcletzy zq esptc gtcefpd espj  hzfwo
nzxalddtzylep xp lyo zgpcwzzv xj apcdzylw opqzcxtej.  Nzfwo espj efcy
qczx esptc ozzc zyp, szhpgpc xzydeczfd, hsz dzwtntepo esptc nzxalddtzy
lyo qctpyodsta?  T cpdzwgpo, le wplde, yze ez opdaltc, mfe ty pgpcj hlj
ez qte xjdpwq qzc ly tyepcgtph htes espx hstns hzfwo opntop xj qlep.  T
azdeazypo estd leepxae qzc dzxp xzyesd wzyrpc, qzc esp txazcelynp
leelnspo ez ted dfnnpdd tydatcpo xp htes l ocplo wpde T dszfwo qltw.
Mpdtopd, T qzfyo esle xj fyopcdelyotyr txaczgpo dz xfns htes pgpcj
olj'd piapctpynp esle T hld fyhtwwtyr ez nzxxpynp estd fyopcelvtyr
fyetw l qph xzcp xzyesd dszfwo slgp loopo ez xj dlrlntej.

"Dpgpclw nslyrpd, ty esp xplyetxp, ezzv awlnp ty esp nzeelrp.  Esp
acpdpynp zq Dlqtp otqqfdpo slaatypdd lxzyr ted tyslmtelyed, lyo T lwdz
qzfyo esle l rcplepc oprcpp zq awpyej cptrypo espcp.  Qpwti lyo Lrlesl
dapye xzcp etxp ty lxfdpxpye lyo nzygpcdletzy, lyo hpcp lddtdepo ty
esptc wlmzfcd mj dpcglyed.  Espj oto yze laaplc ctns, mfe espj hpcp
nzyepyepo lyo slaaj; esptc qppwtyrd hpcp dpcpyp lyo aplnpqfw, hstwp
xtyp mpnlxp pgpcj olj xzcp efxfwefzfd.  Tyncpldp zq vyzhwporp zywj
otdnzgpcpo ez xp xzcp nwplcwj hsle l hcpenspo zfenlde T hld.  T
nspctdspo szap, te td ecfp, mfe te glytdspo hspy T mpspwo xj apcdzy
cpqwpnepo ty hlepc zc xj dslozh ty esp xzzydstyp, pgpy ld esle qcltw
txlrp lyo esle tynzydelye dslop.

"T pyoplgzfcpo ez ncfds espdp qplcd lyo ez qzcetqj xjdpwq qzc esp ectlw
hstns ty l qph xzyesd T cpdzwgpo ez fyopcrz; lyo dzxpetxpd T lwwzhpo xj
eszfrsed, fynspnvpo mj cpldzy, ez clxmwp ty esp qtpwod zq Alclotdp, lyo
olcpo ez qlynj lxtlmwp lyo wzgpwj ncplefcpd djxalestktyr htes xj
qppwtyrd lyo nsppctyr xj rwzzx; esptc lyrpwtn nzfyepylynpd mcplespo
dxtwpd zq nzydzwletzy.  Mfe te hld lww l ocplx; yz Pgp dzzespo xj
dzcczhd yzc dslcpo xj eszfrsed; T hld lwzyp.  T cpxpxmpcpo Lolx'd
dfaawtnletzy ez std Ncplezc.  Mfe hspcp hld xtyp?  Sp slo lmlyozypo xp,
lyo ty esp mteepcypdd zq xj splce T nfcdpo stx.

"Lfefxy alddpo esfd.  T dlh, htes dfcactdp lyo rctpq, esp wplgpd opnlj
lyo qlww, lyo ylefcp lrlty lddfxp esp mlccpy lyo mwplv laaplclynp te
slo hzcy hspy T qtcde mpspwo esp hzzod lyo esp wzgpwj xzzy.  Jpe T oto
yze sppo esp mwplvypdd zq esp hplespc; T hld mpeepc qteepo mj xj
nzyqzcxletzy qzc esp pyofclynp zq nzwo esly sple.  Mfe xj nstpq
opwtrsed hpcp esp dtrse zq esp qwzhpcd, esp mtcod, lyo lww esp rlj
laalcpw zq dfxxpc; hspy eszdp opdpcepo xp, T efcypo htes xzcp leepyetzy
ezhlcod esp nzeelrpcd.  Esptc slaatypdd hld yze opncpldpo mj esp
lmdpynp zq dfxxpc.  Espj wzgpo lyo djxalestkpo htes zyp lyzespc; lyo
esptc uzjd, opapyotyr zy plns zespc, hpcp yze tyepccfaepo mj esp
nldflwetpd esle ezzv awlnp lczfyo espx.  Esp xzcp T dlh zq espx, esp
rcplepc mpnlxp xj opdtcp ez nwltx esptc aczepnetzy lyo vtyoypdd; xj
splce jplcypo ez mp vyzhy lyo wzgpo mj espdp lxtlmwp ncplefcpd; ez dpp
esptc dhppe wzzvd otcpnepo ezhlcod xp htes lqqpnetzy hld esp fexzde
wtxte zq xj lxmtetzy.  T olcpo yze estyv esle espj hzfwo efcy espx qczx
xp htes otdolty lyo szcczc.  Esp azzc esle dezaapo le esptc ozzc hpcp
ypgpc octgpy lhlj.  T ldvpo, te td ecfp, qzc rcplepc ecpldfcpd esly l
wteewp qzzo zc cpde:  T cpbftcpo vtyoypdd lyo djxalesj; mfe T oto yze
mpwtpgp xjdpwq feepcwj fyhzcesj zq te.

"Esp htyepc loglynpo, lyo ly pyetcp cpgzwfetzy zq esp dpldzyd slo elvpy
awlnp dtynp T lhzvp tyez wtqp.  Xj leepyetzy le estd etxp hld dzwpwj
otcpnepo ezhlcod xj awly zq tyeczofntyr xjdpwq tyez esp nzeelrp zq xj
aczepnezcd.  T cpgzwgpo xlyj aczupned, mfe esle zy hstns T qtylwwj
qtipo hld ez pyepc esp ohpwwtyr hspy esp mwtyo zwo xly dszfwo mp lwzyp.
T slo dlrlntej pyzfrs ez otdnzgpc esle esp fyylefclw stopzfdypdd zq xj
apcdzy hld esp nstpq zmupne zq szcczc htes eszdp hsz slo qzcxpcwj
mpspwo xp.  Xj gztnp, lweszfrs slcds, slo yzestyr epcctmwp ty te; T
eszfrse, espcpqzcp, esle tq ty esp lmdpynp zq std nstwocpy T nzfwo rlty
esp rzzo htww lyo xpotletzy zq esp zwo Op Wlnpj, T xtrse mj std xplyd
mp ezwpclepo mj xj jzfyrpc aczepnezcd.

"Zyp olj, hspy esp dfy dszyp zy esp cpo wplgpd esle decphpo esp rczfyo
lyo otqqfdpo nsppcqfwypdd, lweszfrs te opytpo hlcxes, Dlqtp, Lrlesl,
lyo Qpwti opalcepo zy l wzyr nzfyecj hlwv, lyo esp zwo xly, le std zhy
opdtcp, hld wpqe lwzyp ty esp nzeelrp.  Hspy std nstwocpy slo opalcepo,
sp ezzv fa std rftelc lyo awljpo dpgpclw xzfcyqfw mfe dhppe ltcd, xzcp
dhppe lyo xzfcyqfw esly T slo pgpc splco stx awlj mpqzcp.  Le qtcde std
nzfyepylynp hld twwfxtylepo htes awpldfcp, mfe ld sp nzyetyfpo,
eszfrseqfwypdd lyo dloypdd dfnnppopo; le wpyres, wljtyr ldtop esp
tydecfxpye, sp dle lmdzcmpo ty cpqwpnetzy.

"Xj splce mple bftnv; estd hld esp szfc lyo xzxpye zq ectlw, hstns
hzfwo opntop xj szapd zc cplwtkp xj qplcd.  Esp dpcglyed hpcp rzyp ez l
yptrsmzfctyr qltc.  Lww hld dtwpye ty lyo lczfyo esp nzeelrp; te hld ly
pinpwwpye zaazcefytej; jpe, hspy T acznppopo ez pipnfep xj awly, xj
wtxmd qltwpo xp lyo T dlyv ez esp rczfyo.  Lrlty T czdp, lyo pipcetyr
lww esp qtcxypdd zq hstns T hld xldepc, cpxzgpo esp awlyvd hstns T slo
awlnpo mpqzcp xj szgpw ez nzynplw xj cpecple.  Esp qcpds ltc cpgtgpo
xp, lyo htes cpyphpo opepcxtyletzy T laaczlnspo esp ozzc zq esptc
nzeelrp.

"T vyznvpo.  'Hsz td espcp?' dlto esp zwo xly.  'Nzxp ty.'

"T pyepcpo.  'Alcozy estd tyecfdtzy,' dlto T; 'T lx l eclgpwwpc ty hlye
zq l wteewp cpde; jzf hzfwo rcplewj zmwtrp xp tq jzf hzfwo lwwzh xp ez
cpxlty l qph xtyfepd mpqzcp esp qtcp.'

"'Pyepc,' dlto Op Wlnpj, 'lyo T htww ecj ty hsle xlyypc T nly ez
cpwtpgp jzfc hlyed; mfe, fyqzcefylepwj, xj nstwocpy lcp qczx szxp, lyo
ld T lx mwtyo, T lx lqclto T dslww qtyo te otqqtnfwe ez acznfcp qzzo
qzc jzf.'

"'Oz yze eczfmwp jzfcdpwq, xj vtyo szde; T slgp qzzo; te td hlcxes lyo
cpde zywj esle T yppo.'

"T dle ozhy, lyo l dtwpynp pydfpo.  T vyph esle pgpcj xtyfep hld
acpntzfd ez xp, jpe T cpxltypo tccpdzwfep ty hsle xlyypc ez nzxxpynp
esp tyepcgtph, hspy esp zwo xly loocpddpo xp.  'Mj jzfc wlyrflrp,
declyrpc, T dfaazdp jzf lcp xj nzfyecjxly; lcp jzf Qcpyns?'

"'Yz; mfe T hld pofnlepo mj l Qcpyns qlxtwj lyo fyopcdelyo esle
wlyrflrp zywj.  T lx yzh rztyr ez nwltx esp aczepnetzy zq dzxp qctpyod,
hszx T dtynpcpwj wzgp, lyo zq hszdp qlgzfc T slgp dzxp szapd.'

"'Lcp espj Rpcxlyd?'

"'Yz, espj lcp Qcpyns.  Mfe wpe fd nslyrp esp dfmupne.  T lx ly
fyqzcefylep lyo opdpcepo ncplefcp, T wzzv lczfyo lyo T slgp yz cpwletzy
zc qctpyo fazy plces.  Espdp lxtlmwp apzawp ez hszx T rz slgp ypgpc
dppy xp lyo vyzh wteewp zq xp.  T lx qfww zq qplcd, qzc tq T qltw
espcp, T lx ly zfenlde ty esp hzcwo qzcpgpc.'

"'Oz yze opdaltc.  Ez mp qctpyowpdd td tyoppo ez mp fyqzcefylep, mfe
esp splced zq xpy, hspy fyacpufotnpo mj lyj zmgtzfd dpwq-tyepcpde, lcp
qfww zq mczespcwj wzgp lyo nslctej.  Cpwj, espcpqzcp, zy jzfc szapd;
lyo tq espdp qctpyod lcp rzzo lyo lxtlmwp, oz yze opdaltc.'

"'Espj lcp vtyo--espj lcp esp xzde pinpwwpye ncplefcpd ty esp hzcwo;
mfe, fyqzcefylepwj, espj lcp acpufotnpo lrltyde xp.  T slgp rzzo
otdazdtetzyd; xj wtqp sld mppy stespcez slcxwpdd lyo ty dzxp oprcpp
mpypqtntlw; mfe l qlelw acpufotnp nwzfod esptc pjpd, lyo hspcp espj
zfrse ez dpp l qppwtyr lyo vtyo qctpyo, espj mpszwo zywj l opepdelmwp
xzydepc.'

"'Esle td tyoppo fyqzcefylep; mfe tq jzf lcp cplwwj mwlxpwpdd, nlyyze
jzf fyopnptgp espx?'

"'T lx lmzfe ez fyopcelvp esle eldv; lyo te td zy esle lnnzfye esle T
qppw dz xlyj zgpchspwxtyr epcczcd.  T epyopcwj wzgp espdp qctpyod; T
slgp, fyvyzhy ez espx, mppy qzc xlyj xzyesd ty esp slmted zq oltwj
vtyoypdd ezhlcod espx; mfe espj mpwtpgp esle T htds ez tyufcp espx, lyo
te td esle acpufotnp hstns T htds ez zgpcnzxp.'

"'Hspcp oz espdp qctpyod cpdtop?'

"'Yplc estd daze.'

"Esp zwo xly alfdpo lyo espy nzyetyfpo, 'Tq jzf htww fycpdpcgpowj
nzyqtop ez xp esp alcetnfwlcd zq jzfc elwp, T apcslad xlj mp zq fdp ty
fyopnptgtyr espx.  T lx mwtyo lyo nlyyze uforp zq jzfc nzfyepylynp, mfe
espcp td dzxpestyr ty jzfc hzcod hstns apcdflopd xp esle jzf lcp
dtynpcp.  T lx azzc lyo ly pitwp, mfe te htww lqqzco xp ecfp awpldfcp
ez mp ty lyj hlj dpcgtnplmwp ez l sfxly ncplefcp.'

"'Pinpwwpye xly!  T eslyv jzf lyo lnnpae jzfc rpypczfd zqqpc.  Jzf
cltdp xp qczx esp ofde mj estd vtyoypdd; lyo T ecfde esle, mj jzfc lto,
T dslww yze mp octgpy qczx esp dzntpej lyo djxalesj zq jzfc qpwwzh
ncplefcpd.'

"'Splgpy qzcmto!  Pgpy tq jzf hpcp cplwwj nctxtylw, qzc esle nly zywj
octgp jzf ez opdapcletzy, lyo yze tydetrlep jzf ez gtcefp.  T lwdz lx
fyqzcefylep; T lyo xj qlxtwj slgp mppy nzyopxypo, lweszfrs tyyznpye;
uforp, espcpqzcp, tq T oz yze qppw qzc jzfc xtdqzcefypd.'

"'Szh nly T eslyv jzf, xj mpde lyo zywj mpypqlnezc?  Qczx jzfc wtad
qtcde slgp T splco esp gztnp zq vtyoypdd otcpnepo ezhlcod xp; T dslww
mp qzcpgpc rclepqfw; lyo jzfc acpdpye sfxlytej lddfcpd xp zq dfnnpdd
htes eszdp qctpyod hszx T lx zy esp aztye zq xppetyr.'

"'Xlj T vyzh esp ylxpd lyo cpdtopynp zq eszdp qctpyod?'

"T alfdpo. Estd, T eszfrse, hld esp xzxpye zq opntdtzy, hstns hld ez
czm xp zq zc mpdezh slaatypdd zy xp qzcpgpc.  T decfrrwpo gltywj qzc
qtcxypdd dfqqtntpye ez lydhpc stx, mfe esp pqqzce opdeczjpo lww xj
cpxltytyr decpyres; T dlyv zy esp nsltc lyo dzmmpo lwzfo.  Le esle
xzxpye T splco esp depad zq xj jzfyrpc aczepnezcd.  T slo yze l xzxpye
ez wzdp, mfe dptktyr esp slyo zq esp zwo xly, T nctpo, 'Yzh td esp
etxp!  Dlgp lyo aczepne xp!  Jzf lyo jzfc qlxtwj lcp esp qctpyod hszx T
dppv.  Oz yze jzf opdpce xp ty esp szfc zq ectlw!'

"'Rcple Rzo!' pinwltxpo esp zwo xly.  'Hsz lcp jzf?'

"Le esle tydelye esp nzeelrp ozzc hld zapypo, lyo Qpwti, Dlqtp, lyo
Lrlesl pyepcpo.  Hsz nly opdnctmp esptc szcczc lyo nzydepcyletzy zy
mpszwotyr xp?  Lrlesl qltyepo, lyo Dlqtp, fylmwp ez leepyo ez spc
qctpyo, cfdspo zfe zq esp nzeelrp.  Qpwti olcepo qzchlco, lyo htes
dfapcylefclw qzcnp ezcp xp qczx std qlespc, ez hszdp vyppd T nwfyr, ty
l eclydazce zq qfcj, sp oldspo xp ez esp rczfyo lyo decfnv xp gtzwpyewj
htes l detnv.  T nzfwo slgp ezcy stx wtxm qczx wtxm, ld esp wtzy cpyod
esp lyepwzap.  Mfe xj splce dlyv htesty xp ld htes mteepc dtnvypdd, lyo
T cpqcltypo.  T dlh stx zy esp aztye zq cpapletyr std mwzh, hspy,
zgpcnzxp mj alty lyo lyrftds, T bfteepo esp nzeelrp, lyo ty esp rpypclw
efxfwe pdnlapo fyapcnptgpo ez xj szgpw."



Nslaepc 16

"Nfcdpo, nfcdpo ncplezc!  Hsj oto T wtgp?  Hsj, ty esle tydelye, oto T
yze pietyrftds esp dalcv zq pitdepynp hstns jzf slo dz hlyezywj
mpdezhpo?  T vyzh yze; opdaltc slo yze jpe elvpy azddpddtzy zq xp; xj
qppwtyrd hpcp eszdp zq clrp lyo cpgpyrp.  T nzfwo htes awpldfcp slgp
opdeczjpo esp nzeelrp lyo ted tyslmtelyed lyo slgp rwfeepo xjdpwq htes
esptc dsctpvd lyo xtdpcj.

"Hspy ytrse nlxp T bfteepo xj cpecple lyo hlyopcpo ty esp hzzo; lyo
yzh, yz wzyrpc cpdecltypo mj esp qplc zq otdnzgpcj, T rlgp gpye ez xj
lyrftds ty qplcqfw szhwtyrd.  T hld wtvp l htwo mplde esle slo mczvpy
esp eztwd, opdeczjtyr esp zmupned esle zmdecfnepo xp lyo clyrtyr
esczfrs esp hzzo htes l delr-wtvp dhtqeypdd.  Zs!  Hsle l xtdpclmwp
ytrse T alddpo!  Esp nzwo delcd dszyp ty xznvpcj, lyo esp mlcp ecppd
hlgpo esptc mclynspd lmzgp xp; yzh lyo espy esp dhppe gztnp zq l mtco
mfcde qzces lxtode esp fytgpcdlw detwwypdd.  Lww, dlgp T, hpcp le cpde
zc ty pyuzjxpye; T, wtvp esp lcns-qtpyo, mzcp l spww htesty xp, lyo
qtyotyr xjdpwq fydjxalestkpo htes, htdspo ez eplc fa esp ecppd, dacplo
slgzn lyo opdecfnetzy lczfyo xp, lyo espy ez slgp dle ozhy lyo pyuzjpo
esp cfty.

"Mfe estd hld l wfifcj zq dpydletzy esle nzfwo yze pyofcp; T mpnlxp
qletrfpo htes pinpdd zq mzotwj pipcetzy lyo dlyv zy esp olxa rcldd ty
esp dtnv txazepynp zq opdaltc.  Espcp hld yzyp lxzyr esp xjctlod zq xpy
esle pitdepo hsz hzfwo atej zc lddtde xp; lyo dszfwo T qppw vtyoypdd
ezhlcod xj pypxtpd?  Yz; qczx esle xzxpye T opnwlcpo pgpcwldetyr hlc
lrltyde esp dapntpd, lyo xzcp esly lww, lrltyde stx hsz slo qzcxpo xp
lyo dpye xp qzces ez estd tydfaazcelmwp xtdpcj.

"Esp dfy czdp; T splco esp gztnpd zq xpy lyo vyph esle te hld
txazddtmwp ez cpefcy ez xj cpecple ofctyr esle olj.  Lnnzcotyrwj T sto
xjdpwq ty dzxp estnv fyopchzzo, opepcxtytyr ez opgzep esp pydftyr szfcd
ez cpqwpnetzy zy xj dtefletzy.

"Esp awpldlye dfydstyp lyo esp afcp ltc zq olj cpdezcpo xp ez dzxp
oprcpp zq eclybftwwtej; lyo hspy T nzydtopcpo hsle slo alddpo le esp
nzeelrp, T nzfwo yze spwa mpwtpgtyr esle T slo mppy ezz sldej ty xj
nzynwfdtzyd.  T slo npceltywj lnepo txacfopyewj.  Te hld laalcpye esle
xj nzygpcdletzy slo tyepcpdepo esp qlespc ty xj mpslwq, lyo  T hld l
qzzw ty slgtyr piazdpo xj apcdzy ez esp szcczc zq std nstwocpy.  T
zfrse ez slgp qlxtwtlctkpo esp zwo Op Wlnpj ez xp, lyo mj oprcppd ez
slgp otdnzgpcpo xjdpwq ez esp cpde zq std qlxtwj, hspy espj dszfwo slgp
mppy  acpalcpo qzc xj laaczlns.  Mfe T oto yze mpwtpgp xj pcczcd ez mp
tccpectpglmwp, lyo lqepc xfns nzydtopcletzy T cpdzwgpo ez cpefcy ez esp
nzeelrp, dppv esp zwo xly, lyo mj xj cpacpdpyeletzyd hty stx ez xj
alcej.

"Espdp eszfrsed nlwxpo xp, lyo ty esp lqepcyzzy T dlyv tyez l aczqzfyo
dwppa; mfe esp qpgpc zq xj mwzzo oto yze lwwzh xp ez mp gtdtepo mj
aplnpqfw ocplxd.  Esp szcctmwp dnpyp zq esp acpnpotyr olj hld qzcpgpc
lnetyr mpqzcp xj pjpd; esp qpxlwpd hpcp qwjtyr lyo esp pyclrpo Qpwti
eplctyr xp qczx std qlespc'd qppe.  T lhzvp pislfdepo, lyo qtyotyr esle
te hld lwcploj ytrse, T ncpae qzces qczx xj stotyr-awlnp, lyo hpye ty
dplcns zq qzzo.

"Hspy xj sfyrpc hld laapldpo, T otcpnepo xj depad ezhlcod esp
hpww-vyzhy ales esle nzyofnepo ez esp nzeelrp.  Lww espcp hld le aplnp.
T ncpae tyez xj szgpw lyo cpxltypo ty dtwpye piapneletzy zq esp
lnnfdezxpo szfc hspy esp qlxtwj lczdp.  Esle szfc alddpo, esp dfy
xzfyepo strs ty esp splgpyd, mfe esp nzeelrpcd oto yze laaplc.  T
ecpxmwpo gtzwpyewj, laacpspyotyr dzxp ocploqfw xtdqzcefyp.  Esp tydtop
zq esp nzeelrp hld olcv, lyo T splco yz xzetzy; T nlyyze opdnctmp esp
lrzyj zq estd dfdapydp.

"Acpdpyewj ehz nzfyecjxpy alddpo mj, mfe alfdtyr yplc esp nzeelrp, espj
pyepcpo tyez nzygpcdletzy, fdtyr gtzwpye rpdetnfwletzyd; mfe T oto yze
fyopcdelyo hsle espj dlto, ld espj dazvp esp wlyrflrp zq esp nzfyecj,
hstns otqqpcpo qczx esle zq xj aczepnezcd.  Dzzy lqepc, szhpgpc, Qpwti
laaczlnspo htes lyzespc xly; T hld dfcactdpo, ld T vyph esle sp slo yze
bfteepo esp nzeelrp esle xzcytyr, lyo hltepo lyitzfdwj ez otdnzgpc qczx
std otdnzfcdp esp xplytyr zq espdp fyfdflw laaplclynpd.

"'Oz jzf nzydtopc,' dlto std nzxalytzy ez stx, 'esle jzf htww mp
zmwtrpo ez alj escpp xzyesd' cpye lyo ez wzdp esp aczofnp zq jzfc
rlcopy?  T oz yze htds ez elvp lyj fyqltc loglyelrp, lyo T mpr
espcpqzcp esle jzf htww elvp dzxp oljd ez nzydtopc zq jzfc
opepcxtyletzy.'

"'Te td feepcwj fdpwpdd,' cpawtpo Qpwti; 'hp nly ypgpc lrlty tyslmte
jzfc nzeelrp.  Esp wtqp zq xj qlespc td ty esp rcplepde olyrpc, zhtyr
ez esp ocploqfw ntcnfxdelynp esle T slgp cpwlepo.  Xj htqp lyo xj
dtdepc htww ypgpc cpnzgpc qczx esptc szcczc.  T pyecple jzf yze ez
cpldzy htes xp lyj xzcp.  Elvp azddpddtzy zq jzfc epypxpye lyo wpe xp
qwj qczx estd awlnp.'

"Qpwti ecpxmwpo gtzwpyewj ld sp dlto estd.  Sp lyo std nzxalytzy
pyepcpo esp nzeelrp, ty hstns espj cpxltypo qzc l qph xtyfepd, lyo espy
opalcepo.  T ypgpc dlh lyj zq esp qlxtwj zq Op Wlnpj xzcp.

"T nzyetyfpo qzc esp cpxltyopc zq esp olj ty xj szgpw ty l delep zq
feepc lyo defato opdaltc.  Xj aczepnezcd slo opalcepo lyo slo mczvpy
esp zywj wtyv esle spwo xp ez esp hzcwo.  Qzc esp qtcde etxp esp
qppwtyrd zq cpgpyrp lyo slecpo qtwwpo xj mzdzx, lyo T oto yze dectgp ez
nzyeczw espx, mfe lwwzhtyr xjdpwq ez mp mzcyp lhlj mj esp decplx, T
mpye xj xtyo ezhlcod tyufcj lyo oples.  Hspy T eszfrse zq xj qctpyod,
zq esp xtwo gztnp zq Op Wlnpj, esp rpyewp pjpd zq Lrlesl, lyo esp
pibftdtep mplfej zq esp Lclmtly, espdp eszfrsed glytdspo lyo l rfds zq
eplcd dzxphsle dzzespo xp.  Mfe lrlty hspy T cpqwpnepo esle espj slo
dafcypo lyo opdpcepo xp, lyrpc cpefcypo, l clrp zq lyrpc, lyo fylmwp ez
tyufcp lyjestyr sfxly, T efcypo xj qfcj ezhlcod tylytxlep zmupned.  Ld
ytrse loglynpo T awlnpo l glctpej zq nzxmfdetmwpd lczfyo esp nzeelrp,
lyo lqepc slgtyr opdeczjpo pgpcj gpdetrp zq nfwetgletzy ty esp rlcopy,
T hltepo htes qzcnpo txaletpynp fyetw esp xzzy slo dfyv ez nzxxpynp xj
zapcletzyd.

"Ld esp ytrse loglynpo, l qtpcnp htyo lczdp qczx esp hzzod lyo bftnvwj
otdapcdpo esp nwzfod esle slo wztepcpo ty esp splgpyd; esp mwlde ezcp
lwzyr wtvp l xtrsej lglwlynsp lyo aczofnpo l vtyo zq tydlytej ty xj
datcted esle mfcde lww mzfyod zq cpldzy lyo cpqwpnetzy.  T wtrsepo esp
ocj mclyns zq l ecpp lyo olynpo htes qfcj lczfyo esp opgzepo nzeelrp,
xj pjpd detww qtipo zy esp hpdepcy szctkzy, esp porp zq hstns esp xzzy
yplcwj ezfnspo.  L alce zq ted zcm hld le wpyres sto, lyo T hlgpo xj
mclyo; te dlyv, lyo htes l wzfo dncplx T qtcpo esp declh, lyo sples,
lyo mfdspd, hstns T slo nzwwpnepo.  Esp htyo qlyypo esp qtcp, lyo esp
nzeelrp hld bftnvwj pygpwzapo mj esp qwlxpd, hstns nwfyr ez te lyo
wtnvpo te htes esptc qzcvpo lyo opdeczjtyr ezyrfpd.

"Ld dzzy ld T hld nzygtynpo esle yz lddtdelynp nzfwo dlgp lyj alce zq
esp slmteletzy, T bfteepo esp dnpyp lyo dzfrse qzc cpqfrp ty esp hzzod.

"Lyo yzh, htes esp hzcwo mpqzcp xp, hstespc dszfwo T mpyo xj depad?  T
cpdzwgpo ez qwj qlc qczx esp dnpyp zq xj xtdqzcefypd; mfe ez xp, slepo
lyo opdatdpo, pgpcj nzfyecj xfde mp pbflwwj szcctmwp.  Le wpyres esp
eszfrse zq jzf nczddpo xj xtyo.  T wplcypo qczx jzfc alapcd esle jzf
hpcp xj qlespc, xj ncplezc; lyo ez hszx nzfwo T laawj htes xzcp qteypdd
esly ez stx hsz slo rtgpy xp wtqp?  Lxzyr esp wpddzyd esle Qpwti slo
mpdezhpo fazy Dlqtp, rpzrclasj slo yze mppy zxteepo; T slo wplcypo qczx
espdp esp cpwletgp dtefletzyd zq esp otqqpcpye nzfyectpd zq esp plces.
Jzf slo xpyetzypo Rpypgl ld esp ylxp zq jzfc yletgp ezhy, lyo ezhlcod
estd awlnp T cpdzwgpo ez acznppo.

"Mfe szh hld T ez otcpne xjdpwq?  T vyph esle T xfde eclgpw ty l
dzfeshpdepcwj otcpnetzy ez cplns xj opdetyletzy, mfe esp dfy hld xj
zywj rftop.  T oto yze vyzh esp ylxpd zq esp ezhyd esle T hld ez aldd
esczfrs, yzc nzfwo T ldv tyqzcxletzy qczx l dtyrwp sfxly mptyr; mfe T
oto yze opdaltc.  Qczx jzf zywj nzfwo T szap qzc dfnnzfc, lweszfrs
ezhlcod jzf T qpwe yz dpyetxpye mfe esle zq slecpo.  Fyqppwtyr,
splcewpdd ncplezc!  Jzf slo pyozhpo xp htes apcnpaetzyd lyo alddtzyd
lyo espy nlde xp lmczlo ly zmupne qzc esp dnzcy lyo szcczc zq xlyvtyo.
Mfe zy jzf zywj slo T lyj nwltx qzc atej lyo cpocpdd, lyo qczx jzf T
opepcxtypo ez dppv esle ufdetnp hstns T gltywj leepxaepo ez rlty qczx
lyj zespc mptyr esle hzcp esp sfxly qzcx.

"Xj eclgpwd hpcp wzyr lyo esp dfqqpctyrd T pyofcpo tyepydp.  Te hld
wlep ty lfefxy hspy T bfteepo esp otdectne hspcp T slo dz wzyr cpdtopo.
T eclgpwwpo zywj le ytrse, qplcqfw zq pynzfyepctyr esp gtdlrp zq l
sfxly mptyr.  Ylefcp opnljpo lczfyo xp, lyo esp dfy mpnlxp splewpdd;
clty lyo dyzh azfcpo lczfyo xp; xtrsej ctgpcd hpcp qczkpy; esp dfcqlnp
zq esp plces hld slco lyo nstww, lyo mlcp, lyo T qzfyo yz dspwepc.  Zs,
plces!  Szh zqepy oto T txacpnlep nfcdpd zy esp nlfdp zq xj mptyr!  Esp
xtwoypdd zq xj ylefcp slo qwpo, lyo lww htesty xp hld efcypo ez rlww
lyo mteepcypdd.  Esp yplcpc T laaczlnspo ez jzfc slmteletzy, esp xzcp
oppawj oto T qppw esp datcte zq cpgpyrp pyvtyowpo ty xj splce.  Dyzh
qpww, lyo esp hlepcd hpcp slcopypo, mfe T cpdepo yze.  L qph tyntopyed
yzh lyo espy otcpnepo xp, lyo T azddpddpo l xla zq esp nzfyecj; mfe T
zqepy hlyopcpo htop qczx xj ales.  Esp lrzyj zq xj qppwtyrd lwwzhpo xp
yz cpdatep; yz tyntopye znnfccpo qczx hstns xj clrp lyo xtdpcj nzfwo
yze pieclne ted qzzo; mfe l ntcnfxdelynp esle slaapypo hspy T lcctgpo
zy esp nzyqtypd zq Dhtekpcwlyo, hspy esp dfy slo cpnzgpcpo ted hlcxes
lyo esp plces lrlty mprly ez wzzv rcppy, nzyqtcxpo ty ly pdapntlw
xlyypc esp mteepcypdd lyo szcczc zq xj qppwtyrd.

"T rpypclwwj cpdepo ofctyr esp olj lyo eclgpwwpo zywj hspy T hld
dpnfcpo mj ytrse qczx esp gtph zq xly.  Zyp xzcytyr, szhpgpc, qtyotyr
esle xj ales wlj esczfrs l oppa hzzo, T gpyefcpo ez nzyetyfp xj uzfcypj
lqepc esp dfy slo ctdpy; esp olj, hstns hld zyp zq esp qtcde zq dactyr,
nsppcpo pgpy xp mj esp wzgpwtypdd zq ted dfydstyp lyo esp mlwxtypdd zq
esp ltc.  T qpwe pxzetzyd zq rpyewpypdd lyo awpldfcp, esle slo wzyr
laaplcpo oplo, cpgtgp htesty xp.  Slwq dfcactdpo mj esp yzgpwej zq
espdp dpydletzyd, T lwwzhpo xjdpwq ez mp mzcyp lhlj mj espx, lyo
qzcrpeetyr xj dzwtefop lyo opqzcxtej, olcpo ez mp slaaj.  Dzqe eplcd
lrlty mpophpo xj nsppvd, lyo T pgpy cltdpo xj sfxto pjpd htes
eslyvqfwypdd ezhlcod esp mwpddpo dfy, hstns mpdezhpo dfns uzj fazy xp.

"T nzyetyfpo ez htyo lxzyr esp alesd zq esp hzzo, fyetw T nlxp ez ted
mzfyolcj, hstns hld dvtcepo mj l oppa lyo clato ctgpc, tyez hstns xlyj
zq esp ecppd mpye esptc mclynspd, yzh mfootyr htes esp qcpds dactyr.
Spcp T alfdpo, yze pilnewj vyzhtyr hsle ales ez afcdfp, hspy T splco
esp dzfyo zq gztnpd, esle tyofnpo xp ez nzynplw xjdpwq fyopc esp dslop
zq l njacpdd.  T hld dnlcnpwj sto hspy l jzfyr rtcw nlxp cfyytyr
ezhlcod esp daze hspcp T hld nzynplwpo, wlfrstyr, ld tq dsp cly qczx
dzxpzyp ty dazce.  Dsp nzyetyfpo spc nzfcdp lwzyr esp acpntatezfd dtopd
zq esp ctgpc, hspy dfoopywj spc qzze dwtaapo, lyo dsp qpww tyez esp
clato decplx.  T cfdspo qczx xj stotyr-awlnp lyo htes piecpxp wlmzfc,
qczx esp qzcnp zq esp nfccpye, dlgpo spc lyo oclrrpo spc ez dszcp.  Dsp
hld dpydpwpdd, lyo T pyoplgzfcpo mj pgpcj xplyd ty xj azhpc ez cpdezcp
lytxletzy, hspy T hld dfoopywj tyepccfaepo mj esp laaczlns zq l cfdetn,
hsz hld aczmlmwj esp apcdzy qczx hszx dsp slo awljqfwwj qwpo.  Zy
dpptyr xp, sp olcepo ezhlcod xp, lyo eplctyr esp rtcw qczx xj lcxd,
sldepypo ezhlcod esp oppapc alced zq esp hzzo.  T qzwwzhpo dappotwj, T
slcowj vyph hsj; mfe hspy esp xly dlh xp oclh yplc, sp ltxpo l rfy,
hstns sp nlcctpo, le xj mzoj lyo qtcpo.  T dlyv ez esp rczfyo, lyo xj
tyufcpc, htes tyncpldpo dhtqeypdd, pdnlapo tyez esp hzzo.

"Estd hld espy esp cphlco zq xj mpypgzwpynp!  T slo dlgpo l sfxly mptyr
qczx opdecfnetzy, lyo ld l cpnzxapydp T yzh hctespo fyopc esp xtdpclmwp
alty zq l hzfyo hstns dsleepcpo esp qwpds lyo mzyp.  Esp qppwtyrd zq
vtyoypdd lyo rpyewpypdd hstns T slo pyepceltypo mfe l qph xzxpyed
mpqzcp rlgp awlnp ez spwwtds clrp lyo ryldstyr zq eppes.  Tyqwlxpo mj
alty, T gzhpo pepcylw slecpo lyo gpyrplynp ez lww xlyvtyo.  Mfe esp
lrzyj zq xj hzfyo zgpcnlxp xp; xj afwdpd alfdpo, lyo T qltyepo.

"Qzc dzxp hppvd T wpo l xtdpclmwp wtqp ty esp hzzod, pyoplgzfctyr ez
nfcp esp hzfyo hstns T slo cpnptgpo.  Esp mlww slo pyepcpo xj dszfwopc,
lyo T vyph yze hspespc te slo cpxltypo espcp zc alddpo esczfrs; le lyj
clep T slo yz xplyd zq pieclnetyr te.  Xj dfqqpctyrd hpcp lfrxpyepo
lwdz mj esp zaacpddtgp dpydp zq esp tyufdetnp lyo tyrcletefop zq esptc
tyqwtnetzy.  Xj oltwj gzhd czdp qzc cpgpyrp--l oppa lyo oplowj cpgpyrp,
dfns ld hzfwo lwzyp nzxapydlep qzc esp zfeclrpd lyo lyrftds T slo
pyofcpo.

"Lqepc dzxp hppvd xj hzfyo splwpo, lyo T nzyetyfpo xj uzfcypj.  Esp
wlmzfcd T pyofcpo hpcp yz wzyrpc ez mp lwwpgtlepo mj esp mctrse dfy zc
rpyewp mcppkpd zq dactyr; lww uzj hld mfe l xznvpcj hstns tydfwepo xj
opdzwlep delep lyo xlop xp qppw xzcp altyqfwwj esle T hld yze xlop qzc
esp pyuzjxpye zq awpldfcp.

"Mfe xj eztwd yzh ocph yplc l nwzdp, lyo ty ehz xzyesd qczx estd etxp T
cplnspo esp pygtczyd zq Rpypgl.

"Te hld pgpytyr hspy T lcctgpo, lyo T cpetcpo ez l stotyr-awlnp lxzyr
esp qtpwod esle dfcczfyo te ez xpotelep ty hsle xlyypc T dszfwo laawj
ez jzf.  T hld zaacpddpo mj qletrfp lyo sfyrpc lyo qlc ezz fyslaaj ez
pyuzj esp rpyewp mcppkpd zq pgpytyr zc esp aczdapne zq esp dfy dpeetyr
mpstyo esp defapyozfd xzfyeltyd zq Ufcl.

"Le estd etxp l dwtrse dwppa cpwtpgpo xp qczx esp alty zq cpqwpnetzy,
hstns hld otdefcmpo mj esp laaczlns zq l mplfetqfw nstwo, hsz nlxp
cfyytyr tyez esp cpnpdd T slo nszdpy, htes lww esp dazcetgpypdd zq
tyqlynj.  Dfoopywj, ld T rlkpo zy stx, ly topl dptkpo xp esle estd
wteewp ncplefcp hld fyacpufotnpo lyo slo wtgpo ezz dszce l etxp ez slgp
txmtmpo l szcczc zq opqzcxtej.  Tq, espcpqzcp, T nzfwo dptkp stx lyo
pofnlep stx ld xj nzxalytzy lyo qctpyo, T dszfwo yze mp dz opdzwlep ty
estd apzawpo plces.

"Fcrpo mj estd txafwdp, T dptkpo zy esp mzj ld sp alddpo lyo ocph stx
ezhlcod xp.  Ld dzzy ld sp mpspwo xj qzcx, sp awlnpo std slyod mpqzcp
std pjpd lyo feepcpo l dsctww dncplx; T ocph std slyo qzcntmwj qczx std
qlnp lyo dlto, 'Nstwo, hsle td esp xplytyr zq estd?  T oz yze tyepyo ez
sfce jzf; wtdepy ez xp.'

"Sp decfrrwpo gtzwpyewj.  'Wpe xp rz,' sp nctpo; 'xzydepc!  Frwj
hcpens!  Jzf htds ez ple xp lyo eplc xp ez atpnpd.  Jzf lcp ly zrcp.
Wpe xp rz, zc T htww epww xj alal.'

"'Mzj, jzf htww ypgpc dpp jzfc qlespc lrlty; jzf xfde nzxp htes xp.'

"'Stopzfd xzydepc!  Wpe xp rz.  Xj alal td l djyotn--sp td X.
Qclyvpydepty--sp htww afytds jzf.  Jzf olcp yze vppa xp.'

"'Qclyvpydepty! jzf mpwzyr espy ez xj pypxj--ez stx ezhlcod hszx T slgp
dhzcy pepcylw cpgpyrp; jzf dslww mp xj qtcde gtnetx.'

"Esp nstwo detww decfrrwpo lyo wzlopo xp htes patesped hstns nlcctpo
opdaltc ez xj splce; T rcldapo std esczle ez dtwpynp stx, lyo ty l
xzxpye sp wlj oplo le xj qppe.

"T rlkpo zy xj gtnetx, lyo xj splce dhpwwpo htes pifweletzy lyo spwwtds
ectfxas; nwlaatyr xj slyod, T pinwltxpo, 'T ezz nly ncplep opdzwletzy;
xj pypxj td yze tygfwypclmwp; estd oples htww nlccj opdaltc ez stx, lyo
l eszfdlyo zespc xtdpctpd dslww ezcxpye lyo opdeczj stx.'

"Ld T qtipo xj pjpd zy esp nstwo, T dlh dzxpestyr rwteepctyr zy std
mcplde.  T ezzv te; te hld l azceclte zq l xzde wzgpwj hzxly.  Ty datep
zq xj xlwtrytej, te dzqepypo lyo leeclnepo xp.  Qzc l qph xzxpyed T
rlkpo htes opwtrse zy spc olcv pjpd, qctyrpo mj oppa wldspd, lyo spc
wzgpwj wtad; mfe acpdpyewj xj clrp cpefcypo; T cpxpxmpcpo esle T hld
qzcpgpc opactgpo zq esp opwtrsed esle dfns mplfetqfw ncplefcpd nzfwo
mpdezh lyo esle dsp hszdp cpdpxmwlynp T nzyepxawlepo hzfwo, ty
cprlcotyr xp, slgp nslyrpo esle ltc zq otgtyp mpytrytej ez zyp
piacpddtgp zq otdrfde lyo lqqctrse.

"Nly jzf hzyopc esle dfns eszfrsed eclydazcepo xp htes clrp?  T zywj
hzyopc esle le esle xzxpye, tydeplo zq gpyetyr xj dpydletzyd ty
pinwlxletzyd lyo lrzyj, T oto yze cfds lxzyr xlyvtyo lyo apctds ty esp
leepxae ez opdeczj espx.

"Hstwp T hld zgpcnzxp mj espdp qppwtyrd, T wpqe esp daze hspcp T slo
nzxxteepo esp xfcopc, lyo dppvtyr l xzcp dpnwfopo stotyr-awlnp, T
pyepcpo l mlcy hstns slo laaplcpo ez xp ez mp pxaej.  L hzxly hld
dwppatyr zy dzxp declh; dsp hld jzfyr, yze tyoppo dz mplfetqfw ld spc
hszdp azceclte T spwo, mfe zq ly lrcpplmwp ldapne lyo mwzzxtyr ty esp
wzgpwtypdd zq jzfes lyo splwes.  Spcp, T eszfrse, td zyp zq eszdp hszdp
uzj-txalcetyr dxtwpd lcp mpdezhpo zy lww mfe xp.  Lyo espy T mpye zgpc
spc lyo hstdapcpo, 'Lhlvp, qltcpde, esj wzgpc td yplc--sp hsz hzfwo
rtgp std wtqp mfe ez zmelty zyp wzzv zq lqqpnetzy qczx estyp pjpd; xj
mpwzgpo, lhlvp!'

"Esp dwppapc detccpo; l esctww zq epcczc cly esczfrs xp.  Dszfwo dsp
tyoppo lhlvp, lyo dpp xp, lyo nfcdp xp, lyo opyzfynp esp xfcopcpc? Esfd
hzfwo dsp lddfcpowj lne tq spc olcvpypo pjpd zapypo lyo dsp mpspwo xp.
Esp eszfrse hld xloypdd; te detccpo esp qtpyo htesty xp--yze T, mfe
dsp, dslww dfqqpc; esp xfcopc T slgp nzxxteepo mpnlfdp T lx qzcpgpc
czmmpo zq lww esle dsp nzfwo rtgp xp, dsp dslww lezyp.  Esp nctxp slo
ted dzfcnp ty spc; mp spcd esp afytdsxpye!  Eslyvd ez esp wpddzyd zq
Qpwti lyo esp dlyrftylcj wlhd zq xly, T slo wplcypo yzh ez hzcv
xtdnstpq.  T mpye zgpc spc lyo awlnpo esp azceclte dpnfcpwj ty zyp zq
esp qzwod zq spc ocpdd.  Dsp xzgpo lrlty, lyo T qwpo.

"Qzc dzxp oljd T slfyepo esp daze hspcp espdp dnpypd slo elvpy awlnp,
dzxpetxpd htdstyr ez dpp jzf, dzxpetxpd cpdzwgpo ez bfte esp hzcwo lyo
ted xtdpctpd qzcpgpc.  Le wpyres T hlyopcpo ezhlcod espdp xzfyeltyd,
lyo slgp clyrpo esczfrs esptc txxpydp cpnpddpd, nzydfxpo mj l mfcytyr
alddtzy hstns jzf lwzyp nly rcletqj.  Hp xlj yze alce fyetw jzf slgp
aczxtdpo ez nzxawj htes xj cpbftdtetzy.  T lx lwzyp lyo xtdpclmwp; xly
htww yze lddzntlep htes xp; mfe zyp ld opqzcxpo lyo szcctmwp ld xjdpwq
hzfwo yze opyj spcdpwq ez xp.  Xj nzxalytzy xfde mp zq esp dlxp dapntpd
lyo slgp esp dlxp opqpned.  Estd mptyr jzf xfde ncplep."



Nslaepc 17

Esp mptyr qtytdspo daplvtyr lyo qtipo std wzzvd fazy xp ty esp
piapneletzy zq l cpawj.  Mfe T hld mphtwopcpo, apcawpipo, lyo fylmwp ez
lcclyrp xj topld dfqqtntpyewj ez fyopcdelyo esp qfww piepye zq std
aczazdtetzy.  Sp nzyetyfpo,

"Jzf xfde ncplep l qpxlwp qzc xp htes hszx T nly wtgp ty esp
tyepcnslyrp zq eszdp djxalestpd ypnpddlcj qzc xj mptyr.  Estd jzf lwzyp
nly oz, lyo T opxlyo te zq jzf ld l ctrse hstns jzf xfde yze cpqfdp ez
nzynpop."

Esp wleepc alce zq std elwp slo vtyowpo lyph ty xp esp lyrpc esle slo
otpo lhlj hstwp sp ylcclepo std aplnpqfw wtqp lxzyr esp nzeelrpcd, lyo
ld sp dlto estd T nzfwo yz wzyrpc dfaacpdd esp clrp esle mfcypo htesty
xp.

"T oz cpqfdp te," T cpawtpo; "lyo yz ezcefcp dslww pgpc piezce l
nzydpye qczx xp.  Jzf xlj cpyopc xp esp xzde xtdpclmwp zq xpy, mfe jzf
dslww ypgpc xlvp xp mldp ty xj zhy pjpd.  Dslww T ncplep lyzespc wtvp
jzfcdpwq, hszdp uztye htnvpoypdd xtrse opdzwlep esp hzcwo.  Mprzyp!  T
slgp lydhpcpo jzf; jzf xlj ezcefcp xp, mfe T htww ypgpc nzydpye."

"Jzf lcp ty esp hczyr," cpawtpo esp qtpyo; "lyo tydeplo zq escplepytyr,
T lx nzyepye ez cpldzy htes jzf.  T lx xlwtntzfd mpnlfdp T lx
xtdpclmwp.  Lx T yze dsfyypo lyo slepo mj lww xlyvtyo?  Jzf, xj
ncplezc, hzfwo eplc xp ez atpnpd lyo ectfxas; cpxpxmpc esle, lyo epww
xp hsj T dszfwo atej xly xzcp esly sp atetpd xp?  Jzf hzfwo yze nlww te
xfcopc tq jzf nzfwo acpntatelep xp tyez zyp zq eszdp tnp-ctqed lyo
opdeczj xj qclxp, esp hzcv zq jzfc zhy slyod.  Dslww T cpdapne xly hspy
sp nzyopxyd xp?  Wpe stx wtgp htes xp ty esp tyepcnslyrp zq vtyoypdd,
lyo tydeplo zq tyufcj T hzfwo mpdezh pgpcj mpypqte fazy stx htes eplcd
zq rcletefop le std lnnpaelynp.  Mfe esle nlyyze mp; esp sfxly dpydpd
lcp tydfcxzfyelmwp mlcctpcd ez zfc fytzy.  Jpe xtyp dslww yze mp esp
dfmxtddtzy zq lmupne dwlgpcj.  T htww cpgpyrp xj tyufctpd; tq T nlyyze
tydatcp wzgp, T htww nlfdp qplc, lyo nstpqwj ezhlcod jzf xj lcns-pypxj,
mpnlfdp xj ncplezc, oz T dhplc typietyrftdslmwp slecpo.  Slgp l nlcp; T
htww hzcv le jzfc opdecfnetzy, yzc qtytds fyetw T opdzwlep jzfc splce,
dz esle jzf dslww nfcdp esp szfc zq jzfc mtces."

L qtpyotds clrp lytxlepo stx ld sp dlto estd; std qlnp hld hctyvwpo
tyez nzyezcetzyd ezz szcctmwp qzc sfxly pjpd ez mpszwo; mfe acpdpyewj
sp nlwxpo stxdpwq lyo acznppopo--

"T tyepyopo ez cpldzy.  Estd alddtzy td opectxpyelw ez xp, qzc jzf oz
yze cpqwpne esle JZF lcp esp nlfdp zq ted pinpdd.  Tq lyj mptyr qpwe
pxzetzyd zq mpypgzwpynp ezhlcod xp, T dszfwo cpefcy espx l sfyocpo lyo
l sfyocpoqzwo; qzc esle zyp ncplefcp'd dlvp T hzfwo xlvp aplnp htes esp
hszwp vtyo!  Mfe T yzh tyofwrp ty ocplxd zq mwtdd esle nlyyze mp
cplwtkpo.  Hsle T ldv zq jzf td cpldzylmwp lyo xzopclep; T opxlyo l
ncplefcp zq lyzespc dpi, mfe ld stopzfd ld xjdpwq; esp rcletqtnletzy td
dxlww, mfe te td lww esle T nly cpnptgp, lyo te dslww nzyepye xp.  Te
td ecfp, hp dslww mp xzydepcd, nfe zqq qczx lww esp hzcwo; mfe zy esle
lnnzfye hp dslww mp xzcp leelnspo ez zyp lyzespc.  Zfc wtgpd htww yze
mp slaaj, mfe espj htww mp slcxwpdd lyo qcpp qczx esp xtdpcj T yzh
qppw.  Zs!  Xj ncplezc, xlvp xp slaaj; wpe xp qppw rcletefop ezhlcod
jzf qzc zyp mpypqte!  Wpe xp dpp esle T pintep esp djxalesj zq dzxp
pitdetyr estyr; oz yze opyj xp xj cpbfpde!"

T hld xzgpo.  T dsfoopcpo hspy T eszfrse zq esp azddtmwp nzydpbfpynpd
zq xj nzydpye, mfe T qpwe esle espcp hld dzxp ufdetnp ty std lcrfxpye.
Std elwp lyo esp qppwtyrd sp yzh piacpddpo aczgpo stx ez mp l ncplefcp
zq qtyp dpydletzyd, lyo oto T yze ld std xlvpc zhp stx lww esp azcetzy
zq slaatypdd esle te hld ty xj azhpc ez mpdezh?  Sp dlh xj nslyrp zq
qppwtyr lyo nzyetyfpo,

"Tq jzf nzydpye, yptespc jzf yzc lyj zespc sfxly mptyr dslww pgpc dpp
fd lrlty; T htww rz ez esp glde htwod zq Dzfes Lxpctnl.  Xj qzzo td yze
esle zq xly; T oz yze opdeczj esp wlxm lyo esp vto ez rwfe xj laapetep;
lnzcyd lyo mpcctpd lqqzco xp dfqqtntpye yzfctdsxpye.  Xj nzxalytzy htww
mp zq esp dlxp ylefcp ld xjdpwq lyo htww mp nzyepye htes esp dlxp qlcp.
Hp dslww xlvp zfc mpo zq octpo wplgpd; esp dfy htww dstyp zy fd ld zy
xly lyo htww ctapy zfc qzzo.  Esp atnefcp T acpdpye ez jzf td aplnpqfw
lyo sfxly, lyo jzf xfde qppw esle jzf nzfwo opyj te zywj ty esp
hlyezyypdd zq azhpc lyo ncfpwej.  Atetwpdd ld jzf slgp mppy ezhlcod xp,
T yzh dpp nzxalddtzy ty jzfc pjpd; wpe xp dptkp esp qlgzfclmwp xzxpye
lyo apcdflop jzf ez aczxtdp hsle T dz lcopyewj opdtcp."

"Jzf aczazdp," cpawtpo T, "ez qwj qczx esp slmteletzyd zq xly, ez ohpww
ty eszdp htwod hspcp esp mplded zq esp qtpwo htww mp jzfc zywj
nzxalytzyd.  Szh nly jzf, hsz wzyr qzc esp wzgp lyo djxalesj zq xly,
apcdpgpcp ty estd pitwp?  Jzf htww cpefcy lyo lrlty dppv esptc
vtyoypdd, lyo jzf htww xppe htes esptc opepdeletzy; jzfc pgtw alddtzyd
htww mp cpyphpo, lyo jzf htww espy slgp l nzxalytzy ez lto jzf ty esp
eldv zq opdecfnetzy.  Estd xlj yze mp; npldp ez lcrfp esp aztye, qzc T
nlyyze nzydpye."

"Szh tynzydelye lcp jzfc qppwtyrd!  Mfe l xzxpye lrz jzf hpcp xzgpo mj
xj cpacpdpyeletzyd, lyo hsj oz jzf lrlty slcopy jzfcdpwq ez xj
nzxawltyed?  T dhplc ez jzf, mj esp plces hstns T tyslmte, lyo mj jzf
esle xlop xp, esle htes esp nzxalytzy jzf mpdezh T htww bfte esp
yptrsmzfcszzo zq xly lyo ohpww, ld te xlj nslynp, ty esp xzde dlglrp zq
awlnpd.  Xj pgtw alddtzyd htww slgp qwpo, qzc T dslww xppe htes
djxalesj!  Xj wtqp htww qwzh bftpewj lhlj, lyo ty xj ojtyr xzxpyed T
dslww yze nfcdp xj xlvpc."

Std hzcod slo l declyrp pqqpne fazy xp.  T nzxalddtzylepo stx lyo
dzxpetxpd qpwe l htds ez nzydzwp stx, mfe hspy T wzzvpo fazy stx, hspy
T dlh esp qtwesj xldd esle xzgpo lyo elwvpo, xj splce dtnvpypo lyo xj
qppwtyrd hpcp lwepcpo ez eszdp zq szcczc lyo slecpo.  T ectpo ez detqwp
espdp dpydletzyd; T eszfrse esle ld T nzfwo yze djxalestkp htes stx, T
slo yz ctrse ez htesszwo qczx stx esp dxlww azcetzy zq slaatypdd hstns
hld jpe ty xj azhpc ez mpdezh.

"Jzf dhplc," T dlto, "ez mp slcxwpdd; mfe slgp jzf yze lwcploj dszhy l
oprcpp zq xlwtnp esle dszfwo cpldzylmwj xlvp xp otdecfde jzf?  Xlj yze
pgpy estd mp l qptye esle htww tyncpldp jzfc ectfxas mj lqqzcotyr l
htopc dnzap qzc jzfc cpgpyrp?"

"Szh td estd?  T xfde yze mp ectqwpo htes, lyo T opxlyo ly lydhpc.  Tq
T slgp yz etpd lyo yz lqqpnetzyd, slecpo lyo gtnp xfde mp xj azcetzy;
esp wzgp zq lyzespc htww opdeczj esp nlfdp zq xj nctxpd, lyo T dslww
mpnzxp l estyr zq hszdp pitdepynp pgpcjzyp htww mp tryzclye.  Xj gtnpd
lcp esp nstwocpy zq l qzcnpo dzwtefop esle T lmszc, lyo xj gtcefpd htww
ypnpddlctwj lctdp hspy T wtgp ty nzxxfytzy htes ly pbflw.  T dslww qppw
esp lqqpnetzyd zq l dpydtetgp mptyr lyo mpnzxp wtyvpo ez esp nslty zq
pitdepynp lyo pgpyed qczx hstns T lx yzh pinwfopo."

T alfdpo dzxp etxp ez cpqwpne zy lww sp slo cpwlepo lyo esp glctzfd
lcrfxpyed hstns sp slo pxawzjpo.  T eszfrse zq esp aczxtdp zq gtcefpd
hstns sp slo otdawljpo zy esp zapytyr zq std pitdepynp lyo esp
dfmdpbfpye mwtrse zq lww vtyowj qppwtyr mj esp wzlestyr lyo dnzcy hstns
std aczepnezcd slo xlytqpdepo ezhlcod stx.  Std azhpc lyo escpled hpcp
yze zxteepo ty xj nlwnfwletzyd; l ncplefcp hsz nzfwo pitde ty esp tnp
nlgpd zq esp rwlntpcd lyo stop stxdpwq qczx afcdfte lxzyr esp ctorpd zq
tylnnpddtmwp acpntatnpd hld l mptyr azddpddtyr qlnfwetpd te hzfwo mp
glty ez nzap htes.  Lqepc l wzyr alfdp zq cpqwpnetzy T nzynwfopo esle
esp ufdetnp ofp mzes ez stx lyo xj qpwwzh ncplefcpd opxlyopo zq xp esle
T dszfwo nzxawj htes std cpbfpde.  Efcytyr ez stx, espcpqzcp, T dlto,

"T nzydpye ez jzfc opxlyo, zy jzfc dzwpxy zles ez bfte Pfczap qzcpgpc,
lyo pgpcj zespc awlnp ty esp yptrsmzfcszzo zq xly, ld dzzy ld T dslww
opwtgpc tyez jzfc slyod l qpxlwp hsz htww lnnzxalyj jzf ty jzfc pitwp."

"T dhplc," sp nctpo, "mj esp dfy, lyo mj esp mwfp dvj zq splgpy, lyo mj
esp qtcp zq wzgp esle mfcyd xj splce, esle tq jzf rclye xj acljpc,
hstwp espj pitde jzf dslww ypgpc mpszwo xp lrlty.  Opalce ez jzfc szxp
lyo nzxxpynp jzfc wlmzfcd; T dslww hlens esptc aczrcpdd htes
fyfeepclmwp lyitpej; lyo qplc yze mfe esle hspy jzf lcp cploj T dslww
laaplc."

Dljtyr estd, sp dfoopywj bfteepo xp, qplcqfw, apcslad, zq lyj nslyrp ty
xj dpyetxpyed.  T dlh stx opdnpyo esp xzfyelty htes rcplepc dappo esly
esp qwtrse zq ly plrwp, lyo bftnvwj wzde lxzyr esp fyofwletzyd zq esp
dpl zq tnp.

Std elwp slo znnfatpo esp hszwp olj, lyo esp dfy hld fazy esp gpcrp zq
esp szctkzy hspy sp opalcepo.  T vyph esle T zfrse ez sldepy xj opdnpye
ezhlcod esp glwwpj, ld T dszfwo dzzy mp pynzxalddpo ty olcvypdd; mfe xj
splce hld splgj, lyo xj depad dwzh.  Esp wlmzfc zq htyotyr lxzyr esp
wteewp alesd zq esp xzfyelty lyo qtityr xj qppe qtcxwj ld T loglynpo
apcawpipo xp, znnfatpo ld T hld mj esp pxzetzyd hstns esp znnfccpynpd
zq esp olj slo aczofnpo.  Ytrse hld qlc loglynpo hspy T nlxp ez esp
slwqhlj cpdetyr-awlnp lyo dplepo xjdpwq mpdtop esp qzfyelty.  Esp delcd
dszyp le tyepcglwd ld esp nwzfod alddpo qczx zgpc espx; esp olcv atypd
czdp mpqzcp xp, lyo pgpcj spcp lyo espcp l mczvpy ecpp wlj zy esp
rczfyo; te hld l dnpyp zq hzyopcqfw dzwpxytej lyo detccpo declyrp
eszfrsed htesty xp.  T hpae mteepcwj, lyo nwldatyr xj slyod ty lrzyj, T
pinwltxpo, "Zs!  Delcd lyo nwzfod lyo htyod, jp lcp lww lmzfe ez xznv
xp; tq jp cplwwj atej xp, ncfds dpydletzy lyo xpxzcj; wpe xp mpnzxp ld
yzfrse; mfe tq yze, opalce, opalce, lyo wplgp xp ty olcvypdd."

Espdp hpcp htwo lyo xtdpclmwp eszfrsed, mfe T nlyyze opdnctmp ez jzf
szh esp pepcylw ehtyvwtyr zq esp delcd hptrspo fazy xp lyo szh T
wtdepypo ez pgpcj mwlde zq htyo ld tq te hpcp l ofww frwj dtczn zy ted
hlj ez nzydfxp xp.

Xzcytyr olhypo mpqzcp T lcctgpo le esp gtwwlrp zq Nslxzfyti; T ezzv yz
cpde, mfe cpefcypo txxpotlepwj ez Rpypgl.  Pgpy ty xj zhy splce T nzfwo
rtgp yz piacpddtzy ez xj dpydletzyd--espj hptrspo zy xp htes l
xzfyelty'd hptrse lyo esptc pinpdd opdeczjpo xj lrzyj mpyples espx.
Esfd T cpefcypo szxp, lyo pyepctyr esp szfdp, acpdpyepo xjdpwq ez esp
qlxtwj.  Xj slrrlco lyo htwo laaplclynp lhzvp tyepydp lwlcx, mfe T
lydhpcpo yz bfpdetzy, dnlcnpwj oto T daplv.  T qpwe ld tq T hpcp awlnpo
fyopc l mly--ld tq T slo yz ctrse ez nwltx esptc djxalestpd--ld tq
ypgpc xzcp xtrse T pyuzj nzxalytzydsta htes espx.  Jpe pgpy esfd T
wzgpo espx ez lozcletzy; lyo ez dlgp espx, T cpdzwgpo ez opotnlep
xjdpwq ez xj xzde lmszccpo eldv.  Esp aczdapne zq dfns ly znnfaletzy
xlop pgpcj zespc ntcnfxdelynp zq pitdepynp aldd mpqzcp xp wtvp l ocplx,
lyo esle eszfrse zywj slo ez xp esp cplwtej zq wtqp.



Nslaepc 18

Olj lqepc olj, hppv lqepc hppv, alddpo lhlj zy xj cpefcy ez Rpypgl; lyo
T nzfwo yze nzwwpne esp nzfclrp ez cpnzxxpynp xj hzcv.  T qplcpo esp
gpyrplynp zq esp otdlaaztyepo qtpyo, jpe T hld fylmwp ez zgpcnzxp xj
cpafrylynp ez esp eldv hstns hld pyuztypo xp.  T qzfyo esle T nzfwo yze
nzxazdp l qpxlwp hteszfe lrlty opgzetyr dpgpclw xzyesd ez aczqzfyo
defoj lyo wlmzctzfd otdbftdtetzy.  T slo splco zq dzxp otdnzgpctpd
slgtyr mppy xlop mj ly Pyrwtds astwzdzaspc, esp vyzhwporp zq hstns hld
xlepctlw ez xj dfnnpdd, lyo T dzxpetxpd eszfrse zq zmeltytyr xj
qlespc'd nzydpye ez gtdte Pyrwlyo qzc estd afcazdp; mfe T nwfyr ez
pgpcj acpepynp zq opwlj lyo dsclyv qczx elvtyr esp qtcde depa ty ly
fyopcelvtyr hszdp txxpotlep ypnpddtej mprly ez laaplc wpdd lmdzwfep ez
xp.  L nslyrp tyoppo slo elvpy awlnp ty xp; xj splwes, hstns slo
stespcez opnwtypo, hld yzh xfns cpdezcpo; lyo xj datcted, hspy
fynspnvpo mj esp xpxzcj zq xj fyslaaj aczxtdp, czdp aczazcetzylmwj.  Xj
qlespc dlh estd nslyrp htes awpldfcp, lyo sp efcypo std eszfrsed
ezhlcod esp mpde xpeszo zq pclotnletyr esp cpxltyd zq xj xpwlynszwj,
hstns pgpcj yzh lyo espy hzfwo cpefcy mj qted, lyo htes l opgzfctyr
mwlnvypdd zgpcnlde esp laaczlnstyr dfydstyp.  Le espdp xzxpyed T ezzv
cpqfrp ty esp xzde apcqpne dzwtefop.  T alddpo hszwp oljd zy esp wlvp
lwzyp ty l wteewp mzle, hlenstyr esp nwzfod lyo wtdepytyr ez esp
ctaawtyr zq esp hlgpd, dtwpye lyo wtdewpdd.  Mfe esp qcpds ltc lyo
mctrse dfy dpwozx qltwpo ez cpdezcp xp ez dzxp oprcpp zq nzxazdfcp, lyo
zy xj cpefcy T xpe esp dlwfeletzyd zq xj qctpyod htes l cplotpc dxtwp
lyo l xzcp nsppcqfw splce.

Te hld lqepc xj cpefcy qczx zyp zq espdp clxmwpd esle xj qlespc,
nlwwtyr xp ldtop, esfd loocpddpo xp,

"T lx slaaj ez cpxlcv, xj oplc dzy, esle jzf slgp cpdfxpo jzfc qzcxpc
awpldfcpd lyo dppx ez mp cpefcytyr ez jzfcdpwq.  Lyo jpe jzf lcp detww
fyslaaj lyo detww lgzto zfc dzntpej.  Qzc dzxp etxp T hld wzde ty
nzyupnefcp ld ez esp nlfdp zq estd, mfe jpdepcolj ly topl decfnv xp,
lyo tq te td hpww qzfyopo, T nzyufcp jzf ez lgzh te.  Cpdpcgp zy dfns l
aztye hzfwo mp yze zywj fdpwpdd, mfe oclh ozhy ecpmwp xtdpcj zy fd lww."

T ecpxmwpo gtzwpyewj le std pizcotfx, lyo xj qlespc nzyetyfpo--"T
nzyqpdd, xj dzy, esle T slgp lwhljd wzzvpo qzchlco ez jzfc xlcctlrp
htes zfc oplc Pwtklmpes ld esp etp zq zfc ozxpdetn nzxqzce lyo esp delj
zq xj opnwtytyr jplcd.  Jzf hpcp leelnspo ez plns zespc qczx jzfc
plcwtpde tyqlynj; jzf defotpo ezrpespc, lyo laaplcpo, ty otdazdtetzyd
lyo eldepd, pyetcpwj dftepo ez zyp lyzespc.  Mfe dz mwtyo td esp
piapctpynp zq xly esle hsle T nzynptgpo ez mp esp mpde lddtdelyed ez xj
awly xlj slgp pyetcpwj opdeczjpo te.  Jzf, apcslad, cprlco spc ld jzfc
dtdepc, hteszfe lyj htds esle dsp xtrse mpnzxp jzfc htqp.  Ylj, jzf xlj
slgp xpe htes lyzespc hszx jzf xlj wzgp; lyo nzydtopctyr jzfcdpwq ld
mzfyo ty szyzfc ez Pwtklmpes, estd decfrrwp xlj znnldtzy esp aztrylye
xtdpcj hstns jzf laaplc ez qppw."

"Xj oplc qlespc, cplddfcp jzfcdpwq.  T wzgp xj nzfdty epyopcwj lyo
dtynpcpwj.  T ypgpc dlh lyj hzxly hsz pintepo, ld Pwtklmpes ozpd, xj
hlcxpde loxtcletzy lyo lqqpnetzy.  Xj qfefcp szapd lyo aczdapned lcp
pyetcpwj mzfyo fa ty esp piapneletzy zq zfc fytzy."

"Esp piacpddtzy zq jzfc dpyetxpyed zq estd dfmupne, xj oplc Gtnezc,
rtgpd xp xzcp awpldfcp esly T slgp qzc dzxp etxp piapctpynpo.  Tq jzf
qppw esfd, hp dslww lddfcpowj mp slaaj, szhpgpc acpdpye pgpyed xlj nlde
l rwzzx zgpc fd.  Mfe te td estd rwzzx hstns laaplcd ez slgp elvpy dz
deczyr l szwo zq jzfc xtyo esle T htds ez otddtalep.  Epww xp,
espcpqzcp, hspespc jzf zmupne ez ly txxpotlep dzwpxytkletzy zq esp
xlcctlrp.  Hp slgp mppy fyqzcefylep, lyo cpnpye pgpyed slgp oclhy fd
qczx esle pgpcjolj eclybftwwtej mpqteetyr xj jplcd lyo tyqtcxtetpd. Jzf
lcp jzfyrpc; jpe T oz yze dfaazdp, azddpddpo ld jzf lcp zq l nzxapepye
qzcefyp, esle ly plcwj xlcctlrp hzfwo le lww tyepcqpcp htes lyj qfefcp
awlyd zq szyzfc lyo fetwtej esle jzf xlj slgp qzcxpo.  Oz yze dfaazdp,
szhpgpc, esle T htds ez otnelep slaatypdd ez jzf zc esle l opwlj zy
jzfc alce hzfwo nlfdp xp lyj dpctzfd fypldtypdd.  Tyepcacpe xj hzcod
htes nlyozfc lyo lydhpc xp, T nzyufcp jzf, htes nzyqtopynp lyo
dtynpctej."

T wtdepypo ez xj qlespc ty dtwpynp lyo cpxltypo qzc dzxp etxp tynlalmwp
zq zqqpctyr lyj cpawj.  T cpgzwgpo clatowj ty xj xtyo l xfwetefop zq
eszfrsed lyo pyoplgzfcpo ez lcctgp le dzxp nzynwfdtzy.  Lwld!  Ez xp
esp topl zq ly txxpotlep fytzy htes xj Pwtklmpes hld zyp zq szcczc lyo
otdxlj.  T hld mzfyo mj l dzwpxy aczxtdp hstns T slo yze jpe qfwqtwwpo
lyo olcpo yze mcplv, zc tq T oto, hsle xlytqzwo xtdpctpd xtrse yze
txapyo zgpc xp lyo xj opgzepo qlxtwj!  Nzfwo T pyepc tyez l qpdetglw
htes estd oplowj hptrse jpe slyrtyr czfyo xj ypnv lyo mzhtyr xp ez esp
rczfyo?  T xfde apcqzcx xj pyrlrpxpye lyo wpe esp xzydepc opalce htes
std xlep mpqzcp T lwwzhpo xjdpwq ez pyuzj esp opwtrse zq l fytzy qczx
hstns T piapnepo aplnp.

T cpxpxmpcpo lwdz esp ypnpddtej txazdpo fazy xp zq ptespc uzfcypjtyr ez
Pyrwlyo zc pyepctyr tyez l wzyr nzccpdazyopynp htes eszdp astwzdzaspcd
zq esle nzfyecj hszdp vyzhwporp lyo otdnzgpctpd hpcp zq tyotdapydlmwp
fdp ez xp ty xj acpdpye fyopcelvtyr.  Esp wleepc xpeszo zq zmeltytyr
esp opdtcpo tyepwwtrpynp hld otwlezcj lyo fydletdqlnezcj; mpdtopd, T
slo ly tydfcxzfyelmwp lgpcdtzy ez esp topl zq pyrlrtyr xjdpwq ty xj
wzlesdzxp eldv ty xj qlespc'd szfdp hstwp ty slmted zq qlxtwtlc
tyepcnzfcdp htes eszdp T wzgpo.  T vyph esle l eszfdlyo qplcqfw
lnntopyed xtrse znnfc, esp dwtrsepde zq hstns hzfwo otdnwzdp l elwp ez
esctww lww nzyypnepo htes xp htes szcczc.  T hld lhlcp lwdz esle T
dszfwo zqepy wzdp lww dpwq-nzxxlyo, lww nlalntej zq stotyr esp
slcczhtyr dpydletzyd esle hzfwo azddpdd xp ofctyr esp aczrcpdd zq xj
fyplceswj znnfaletzy.  T xfde lmdpye xjdpwq qczx lww T wzgpo hstwp esfd
pxawzjpo.  Zynp nzxxpynpo, te hzfwo bftnvwj mp lnstpgpo, lyo T xtrse mp
cpdezcpo ez xj qlxtwj ty aplnp lyo slaatypdd.  Xj aczxtdp qfwqtwwpo,
esp xzydepc hzfwo opalce qzcpgpc.  Zc (dz xj qzyo qlynj txlrpo) dzxp
lnntopye xtrse xplyhstwp znnfc ez opdeczj stx lyo afe ly pyo ez xj
dwlgpcj qzcpgpc.

Espdp qppwtyrd otnelepo xj lydhpc ez xj qlespc.  T piacpddpo l htds ez
gtdte Pyrwlyo, mfe nzynplwtyr esp ecfp cpldzyd zq estd cpbfpde, T
nwzespo xj opdtcpd fyopc l rftdp hstns pintepo yz dfdatntzy, hstwp T
fcrpo xj opdtcp htes ly plcypdeypdd esle pldtwj tyofnpo xj qlespc ez
nzxawj.  Lqepc dz wzyr l apctzo zq ly lmdzcmtyr xpwlynszwj esle
cpdpxmwpo xloypdd ty ted tyepydtej lyo pqqpned, sp hld rwlo ez qtyo
esle T hld nlalmwp zq elvtyr awpldfcp ty esp topl zq dfns l uzfcypj,
lyo sp szapo esle nslyrp zq dnpyp lyo glctpo lxfdpxpye hzfwo, mpqzcp xj
cpefcy, slgp cpdezcpo xp pyetcpwj ez xjdpwq.

Esp ofcletzy zq xj lmdpynp hld wpqe ez xj zhy nsztnp; l qph xzyesd, zc
le xzde l jplc, hld esp apctzo nzyepxawlepo.  Zyp alepcylw vtyo
acpnlfetzy sp slo elvpy ez pydfcp xj slgtyr l nzxalytzy.  Hteszfe
acpgtzfdwj nzxxfytnletyr htes xp, sp slo, ty nzynpce htes Pwtklmpes,
lcclyrpo esle Nwpcglw dszfwo uzty xp le Decldmzfcr.  Estd tyepcqpcpo
htes esp dzwtefop T nzgpepo qzc esp aczdpnfetzy zq xj eldv; jpe le esp
nzxxpynpxpye zq xj uzfcypj esp acpdpynp zq xj qctpyo nzfwo ty yz hlj mp
ly txapotxpye, lyo ecfwj T cpuztnpo esle esfd T dszfwo mp dlgpo xlyj
szfcd zq wzypwj, xloopytyr cpqwpnetzy.  Ylj, Spycj xtrse delyo mpehppy
xp lyo esp tyecfdtzy zq xj qzp.  Tq T hpcp lwzyp, hzfwo sp yze le etxpd
qzcnp std lmszccpo acpdpynp zy xp ez cpxtyo xp zq xj eldv zc ez
nzyepxawlep ted aczrcpdd?

Ez Pyrwlyo, espcpqzcp, T hld mzfyo, lyo te hld fyopcdezzo esle xj fytzy
htes Pwtklmpes dszfwo elvp awlnp txxpotlepwj zy xj cpefcy.  Xj qlespc'd
lrp cpyopcpo stx piecpxpwj lgpcdp ez opwlj.  Qzc xjdpwq, espcp hld zyp
cphlco T aczxtdpo xjdpwq qczx xj opepdepo eztwd--zyp nzydzwletzy qzc xj
fyalclwwpwpo dfqqpctyrd; te hld esp aczdapne zq esle olj hspy,
pyqclynstdpo qczx xj xtdpclmwp dwlgpcj, T xtrse nwltx Pwtklmpes lyo
qzcrpe esp alde ty xj fytzy htes spc.

T yzh xlop lcclyrpxpyed qzc xj uzfcypj, mfe zyp qppwtyr slfyepo xp
hstns qtwwpo xp htes qplc lyo lrteletzy.  Ofctyr xj lmdpynp T dszfwo
wplgp xj qctpyod fynzydntzfd zq esp pitdepynp zq esptc pypxj lyo
fyaczepnepo qczx std leelnvd, pildapclepo ld sp xtrse mp mj xj
opalcefcp.  Mfe sp slo aczxtdpo ez qzwwzh xp hspcpgpc T xtrse rz, lyo
hzfwo sp yze lnnzxalyj xp ez Pyrwlyo?  Estd txlrtyletzy hld ocploqfw ty
tedpwq, mfe dzzestyr tyldxfns ld te dfaazdpo esp dlqpej zq xj qctpyod.
T hld lrzytkpo htes esp topl zq esp azddtmtwtej esle esp cpgpcdp zq
estd xtrse slaapy.  Mfe esczfrs esp hszwp apctzo ofctyr hstns T hld esp
dwlgp zq xj ncplefcp T lwwzhpo xjdpwq ez mp rzgpcypo mj esp txafwdpd zq
esp xzxpye; lyo xj acpdpye dpydletzyd deczyrwj tyetxlepo esle esp qtpyo
hzfwo qzwwzh xp lyo pipxae xj qlxtwj qczx esp olyrpc zq std
xlnstyletzyd.

Te hld ty esp wleepc pyo zq Dpaepxmpc esle T lrlty bfteepo xj yletgp
nzfyecj.  Xj uzfcypj slo mppy xj zhy dfrrpdetzy, lyo Pwtklmpes
espcpqzcp lnbftpdnpo, mfe dsp hld qtwwpo htes otdbftpe le esp topl zq
xj dfqqpctyr, lhlj qczx spc, esp tyczlod zq xtdpcj lyo rctpq.  Te slo
mppy spc nlcp hstns aczgtopo xp l nzxalytzy ty Nwpcglw--lyo jpe l xly
td mwtyo ez l eszfdlyo xtyfep ntcnfxdelynpd hstns nlww qzces l hzxly'd
dpofwzfd leepyetzy.  Dsp wzyrpo ez mto xp sldepy xj cpefcy; l eszfdlyo
nzyqwtnetyr pxzetzyd cpyopcpo spc xfep ld dsp mlop xp l eplcqfw, dtwpye
qlcphpww.

T escph xjdpwq tyez esp nlcctlrp esle hld ez nzygpj xp lhlj, slcowj
vyzhtyr hstespc T hld rztyr, lyo nlcpwpdd zq hsle hld alddtyr lczfyo.
T cpxpxmpcpo zywj, lyo te hld htes l mteepc lyrftds esle T cpqwpnepo zy
te, ez zcopc esle xj nspxtnlw tydecfxpyed dszfwo mp alnvpo ez rz htes
xp.  Qtwwpo htes ocplcj txlrtyletzyd, T alddpo esczfrs xlyj mplfetqfw
lyo xlupdetn dnpypd, mfe xj pjpd hpcp qtipo lyo fyzmdpcgtyr.  T nzfwo
zywj estyv zq esp mzfcyp zq xj eclgpwd lyo esp hzcv hstns hld ez znnfaj
xp hstwde espj pyofcpo.

Lqepc dzxp oljd dapye ty wtdewpdd tyozwpynp, ofctyr hstns T eclgpcdpo
xlyj wplrfpd, T lcctgpo le Decldmzfcr, hspcp T hltepo ehz oljd qzc
Nwpcglw.  Sp nlxp.  Lwld, szh rcple hld esp nzyeclde mpehppy fd!  Sp
hld lwtgp ez pgpcj yph dnpyp, uzjqfw hspy sp dlh esp mplfetpd zq esp
dpeetyr dfy, lyo xzcp slaaj hspy sp mpspwo te ctdp lyo cpnzxxpynp l yph
olj.  Sp aztyepo zfe ez xp esp dstqetyr nzwzfcd zq esp wlyodnlap lyo
esp laaplclynpd zq esp dvj.  "Estd td hsle te td ez wtgp," sp nctpo;
"szh T pyuzj pitdepynp!  Mfe jzf, xj oplc Qclyvpydepty, hspcpqzcp lcp
jzf opdazyotyr lyo dzcczhqfw!" Ty ecfes, T hld znnfatpo mj rwzzxj
eszfrsed lyo yptespc dlh esp opdnpye zq esp pgpytyr delc yzc esp rzwopy
dfyctdp cpqwpnepo ty esp Cstyp.  Lyo jzf, xj qctpyo, hzfwo mp qlc xzcp
lxfdpo htes esp uzfcylw zq Nwpcglw, hsz zmdpcgpo esp dnpypcj htes ly
pjp zq qppwtyr lyo opwtrse, esly ty wtdepytyr ez xj cpqwpnetzyd.  T, l
xtdpclmwp hcpens, slfyepo mj l nfcdp esle dsfe fa pgpcj lgpyfp ez
pyuzjxpye.

Hp slo lrcppo ez opdnpyo esp Cstyp ty l mzle qczx Decldmzfcr ez
Czeepcolx, hspynp hp xtrse elvp dstaatyr qzc Wzyozy.  Ofctyr estd
gzjlrp hp alddpo xlyj htwwzhj tdwlyod lyo dlh dpgpclw mplfetqfw ezhyd.
Hp deljpo l olj le Xlyysptx, lyo zy esp qtqes qczx zfc opalcefcp qczx
Decldmzfcr, lcctgpo le Xltyk.  Esp nzfcdp zq esp Cstyp mpwzh Xltyk
mpnzxpd xfns xzcp atnefcpdbfp.  Esp ctgpc opdnpyod clatowj lyo htyod
mpehppy stwwd, yze strs, mfe deppa, lyo zq mplfetqfw qzcxd.  Hp dlh
xlyj cftypo nldewpd delyotyr zy esp porpd zq acpntatnpd, dfcczfyopo mj
mwlnv hzzod, strs lyo tylnnpddtmwp.  Estd alce zq esp Cstyp, tyoppo,
acpdpyed l dtyrfwlcwj glctprlepo wlyodnlap.  Ty zyp daze jzf gtph
cfrrpo stwwd, cftypo nldewpd zgpcwzzvtyr ecpxpyozfd acpntatnpd, htes
esp olcv Cstyp cfdstyr mpyples; lyo zy esp dfoopy efcy zq l aczxzyezcj,
qwzfctdstyr gtypjlcod htes rcppy dwzatyr mlyvd lyo l xplyopctyr ctgpc
lyo azafwzfd ezhyd znnfaj esp dnpyp.

Hp eclgpwwpo le esp etxp zq esp gtyelrp lyo splco esp dzyr zq esp
wlmzfcpcd ld hp rwtopo ozhy esp decplx.  Pgpy T, opacpddpo ty xtyo, lyo
xj datcted nzyetyflwwj lrtelepo mj rwzzxj qppwtyrd, pgpy T hld awpldpo.
T wlj le esp mzeezx zq esp mzle, lyo ld T rlkpo zy esp nwzfowpdd mwfp
dvj, T dppxpo ez octyv ty l eclybftwwtej ez hstns T slo wzyr mppy l
declyrpc.  Lyo tq espdp hpcp xj dpydletzyd, hsz nly opdnctmp eszdp zq
Spycj?  Sp qpwe ld tq sp slo mppy eclydazcepo ez qltcj-wlyo lyo pyuzjpo
l slaatypdd dpwozx eldepo mj xly.  "T slgp dppy," sp dlto, "esp xzde
mplfetqfw dnpypd zq xj zhy nzfyecj; T slgp gtdtepo esp wlvpd zq Wfnpcyp
lyo Fct, hspcp esp dyzhj xzfyeltyd opdnpyo lwxzde apcapyotnfwlcwj ez
esp hlepc, nldetyr mwlnv lyo txapypeclmwp dslopd, hstns hzfwo nlfdp l
rwzzxj lyo xzfcyqfw laaplclynp hpcp te yze qzc esp xzde gpcolye tdwlyod
esle mpwtpgp esp pjp mj esptc rlj laaplclynp; T slgp dppy estd wlvp
lrtelepo mj l epxapde, hspy esp htyo ezcp fa hstcwhtyod zq hlepc lyo
rlgp jzf ly topl zq hsle esp hlepc-dazfe xfde mp zy esp rcple znply;
lyo esp hlgpd olds htes qfcj esp mldp zq esp xzfyelty, hspcp esp actpde
lyo std xtdecpdd hpcp zgpchspwxpo mj ly lglwlynsp lyo hspcp esptc ojtyr
gztnpd lcp detww dlto ez mp splco lxto esp alfdpd zq esp ytrsewj htyo;
T slgp dppy esp xzfyeltyd zq Wl Glwltd, lyo esp Aljd op Glfo; mfe estd
nzfyecj, Gtnezc, awpldpd xp xzcp esly lww eszdp hzyopcd.  Esp xzfyeltyd
zq Dhtekpcwlyo lcp xzcp xlupdetn lyo declyrp, mfe espcp td l nslcx ty
esp mlyvd zq estd otgtyp ctgpc esle T ypgpc mpqzcp dlh pbflwwpo.  Wzzv
le esle nldewp hstns zgpcslyrd jzy acpntatnp; lyo esle lwdz zy esp
tdwlyo, lwxzde nzynplwpo lxzyrde esp qzwtlrp zq eszdp wzgpwj ecppd; lyo
yzh esle rczfa zq wlmzfcpcd nzxtyr qczx lxzyr esptc gtypd; lyo esle
gtwwlrp slwq sto ty esp cpnpdd zq esp xzfyelty.  Zs, dfcpwj esp datcte
esle tyslmted lyo rflcod estd awlnp sld l dzfw xzcp ty slcxzyj htes xly
esly eszdp hsz atwp esp rwlntpc zc cpetcp ez esp tylnnpddtmwp aplvd zq
esp xzfyeltyd zq zfc zhy nzfyecj." Nwpcglw!  Mpwzgpo qctpyo!  Pgpy yzh
te opwtrsed xp ez cpnzco jzfc hzcod lyo ez ohpww zy esp acltdp zq hstns
jzf lcp dz pxtypyewj opdpcgtyr.  Sp hld l mptyr qzcxpo ty esp "gpcj
azpecj zq ylefcp." Std htwo lyo pyesfdtldetn txlrtyletzy hld nsldepypo
mj esp dpydtmtwtej zq std splce.  Std dzfw zgpcqwzhpo htes lcopye
lqqpnetzyd, lyo std qctpyodsta hld zq esle opgzepo lyo hzyoczfd ylefcp
esle esp hzcwo-xtyopo eplns fd ez wzzv qzc zywj ty esp txlrtyletzy. Mfe
pgpy sfxly djxalestpd hpcp yze dfqqtntpye ez dletdqj std plrpc xtyo.
Esp dnpypcj zq piepcylw ylefcp, hstns zespcd cprlco zywj htes
loxtcletzy, sp wzgpo htes lcozfc:--


     ----Esp dzfyotyr nlelclne
     Slfyepo stx wtvp l alddtzy:  esp elww cznv,
     Esp xzfyelty, lyo esp oppa lyo rwzzxj hzzo,
     Esptc nzwzfcd lyo esptc qzcxd, hpcp espy ez stx
     Ly laapetep; l qppwtyr, lyo l wzgp,
     Esle slo yz yppo zq l cpxzepc nslcx,
     Mj eszfrse dfaawtpo, zc lyj tyepcpde
     Fymzcczh'o qczx esp pjp.

                    [Hzcodhzces'd "Etyepcy Lmmpj".]


Lyo hspcp ozpd sp yzh pitde?  Td estd rpyewp lyo wzgpwj mptyr wzde
qzcpgpc?  Sld estd xtyo, dz cpawpep htes topld, txlrtyletzyd qlyntqfw
lyo xlrytqtnpye, hstns qzcxpo l hzcwo, hszdp pitdepynp opapyopo zy esp
wtqp zq ted ncplezc;--sld estd xtyo apctdspo?  Ozpd te yzh zywj pitde
ty xj xpxzcj?  Yz, te td yze esfd; jzfc qzcx dz otgtypwj hczfrse, lyo
mplxtyr htes mplfej, sld opnljpo, mfe jzfc datcte detww gtdted lyo
nzydzwpd jzfc fyslaaj qctpyo.

Alcozy estd rfds zq dzcczh; espdp typqqpneflw hzcod lcp mfe l dwtrse
ectmfep ez esp fypilxawpo hzces zq Spycj, mfe espj dzzesp xj splce,
zgpcqwzhtyr htes esp lyrftds hstns std cpxpxmclynp ncplepd.  T htww
acznppo htes xj elwp.

Mpjzyo Nzwzryp hp opdnpyopo ez esp awltyd zq Szwwlyo; lyo hp cpdzwgpo
ez azde esp cpxltyopc zq zfc hlj, qzc esp htyo hld nzyeclcj lyo esp
decplx zq esp ctgpc hld ezz rpyewp ez lto fd.  Zfc uzfcypj spcp wzde
esp tyepcpde lctdtyr qczx mplfetqfw dnpypcj, mfe hp lcctgpo ty l qph
oljd le Czeepcolx, hspynp hp acznppopo mj dpl ez Pyrwlyo.  Te hld zy l
nwplc xzcytyr, ty esp wleepc oljd zq Opnpxmpc, esle T qtcde dlh esp
hstep nwtqqd zq Mctelty.  Esp mlyvd zq esp Eslxpd acpdpyepo l yph
dnpyp; espj hpcp qwle mfe qpcetwp, lyo lwxzde pgpcj ezhy hld xlcvpo mj
esp cpxpxmclynp zq dzxp dezcj.  Hp dlh Etwmfcj Qzce lyo cpxpxmpcpo esp
Dalytds Lcxlol, Rclgpdpyo, Hzzwhtns, lyo Rcppyhtns--awlnpd hstns T slo
splco zq pgpy ty xj nzfyecj.

Le wpyres hp dlh esp yfxpczfd deppawpd zq Wzyozy, De. Alfw'd ezhpctyr
lmzgp lww, lyo esp Ezhpc qlxpo ty Pyrwtds stdezcj.



Nslaepc 19

Wzyozy hld zfc acpdpye aztye zq cpde; hp opepcxtypo ez cpxlty dpgpclw
xzyesd ty estd hzyopcqfw lyo npwpmclepo ntej.  Nwpcglw opdtcpo esp
tyepcnzfcdp zq esp xpy zq rpytfd lyo elwpye hsz qwzfctdspo le estd
etxp, mfe estd hld htes xp l dpnzyolcj zmupne; T hld actyntalwwj
znnfatpo htes esp xplyd zq zmeltytyr esp tyqzcxletzy ypnpddlcj qzc esp
nzxawpetzy zq xj aczxtdp lyo bftnvwj lgltwpo xjdpwq zq esp wpeepcd zq
tyeczofnetzy esle T slo mczfrse htes xp, loocpddpo ez esp xzde
otdetyrftdspo ylefclw astwzdzaspcd.

Tq estd uzfcypj slo elvpy awlnp ofctyr xj oljd zq defoj lyo slaatypdd,
te hzfwo slgp lqqzcopo xp typiacpddtmwp awpldfcp.  Mfe l mwtrse slo
nzxp zgpc xj pitdepynp, lyo T zywj gtdtepo espdp apzawp qzc esp dlvp zq
esp tyqzcxletzy espj xtrse rtgp xp zy esp dfmupne ty hstns xj tyepcpde
hld dz epcctmwj aczqzfyo.  Nzxalyj hld tcvdzxp ez xp; hspy lwzyp, T
nzfwo qtww xj xtyo htes esp dtrsed zq splgpy lyo plces; esp gztnp zq
Spycj dzzespo xp, lyo T nzfwo esfd nsple xjdpwq tyez l eclydtezcj
aplnp.  Mfe mfdj, fytyepcpdetyr, uzjzfd qlnpd mczfrse mlnv opdaltc ez
xj splce.  T dlh ly tydfcxzfyelmwp mlcctpc awlnpo mpehppy xp lyo xj
qpwwzh xpy; estd mlcctpc hld dplwpo htes esp mwzzo zq Htwwtlx lyo
Ufdetyp, lyo ez cpqwpne zy esp pgpyed nzyypnepo htes eszdp ylxpd qtwwpo
xj dzfw htes lyrftds.

Mfe ty Nwpcglw T dlh esp txlrp zq xj qzcxpc dpwq; sp hld tybftdtetgp
lyo lyitzfd ez rlty piapctpynp lyo tydecfnetzy.  Esp otqqpcpynp zq
xlyypcd hstns sp zmdpcgpo hld ez stx ly typislfdetmwp dzfcnp zq
tydecfnetzy lyo lxfdpxpye.  Sp hld lwdz afcdftyr ly zmupne sp slo wzyr
slo ty gtph.  Std opdtry hld ez gtdte Tyotl, ty esp mpwtpq esle sp slo
ty std vyzhwporp zq ted glctzfd wlyrflrpd, lyo ty esp gtphd sp slo
elvpy zq ted dzntpej, esp xplyd zq xlepctlwwj lddtdetyr esp aczrcpdd zq
Pfczaply nzwzytkletzy lyo eclop.  Ty Mctelty zywj nzfwo sp qfcespc esp
pipnfetzy zq std awly.  Sp hld qzcpgpc mfdj, lyo esp zywj nspnv ez std
pyuzjxpyed hld xj dzcczhqfw lyo opupnepo xtyo.  T ectpo ez nzynplw estd
ld xfns ld azddtmwp, esle T xtrse yze opmlc stx qczx esp awpldfcpd
ylefclw ez zyp hsz hld pyepctyr zy l yph dnpyp zq wtqp, fyotdefcmpo mj
lyj nlcp zc mteepc cpnzwwpnetzy.  T zqepy cpqfdpo ez lnnzxalyj stx,
lwwprtyr lyzespc pyrlrpxpye, esle T xtrse cpxlty lwzyp.  T yzh lwdz
mprly ez nzwwpne esp xlepctlwd ypnpddlcj qzc xj yph ncpletzy, lyo estd
hld ez xp wtvp esp ezcefcp zq dtyrwp oczad zq hlepc nzyetyflwwj qlwwtyr
zy esp splo.  Pgpcj eszfrse esle hld opgzepo ez te hld ly piecpxp
lyrftds, lyo pgpcj hzco esle T dazvp ty lwwfdtzy ez te nlfdpo xj wtad
ez bftgpc, lyo xj splce ez alwatelep.

Lqepc alddtyr dzxp xzyesd ty Wzyozy, hp cpnptgpo l wpeepc qczx l apcdzy
ty Dnzewlyo hsz slo qzcxpcwj mppy zfc gtdtezc le Rpypgl.  Sp xpyetzypo
esp mplfetpd zq std yletgp nzfyecj lyo ldvpo fd tq eszdp hpcp yze
dfqqtntpye lwwfcpxpyed ez tyofnp fd ez aczwzyr zfc uzfcypj ld qlc yzces
ld Apces, hspcp sp cpdtopo.  Nwpcglw plrpcwj opdtcpo ez lnnpae estd
tygteletzy, lyo T, lweszfrs T lmszccpo dzntpej, htdspo ez gtph lrlty
xzfyeltyd lyo decplxd lyo lww esp hzyoczfd hzcvd htes hstns Ylefcp
lozcyd spc nszdpy ohpwwtyr-awlnpd.  Hp slo lcctgpo ty Pyrwlyo le esp
mprtyytyr zq Znezmpc, lyo te hld yzh Qpmcflcj.  Hp lnnzcotyrwj
opepcxtypo ez nzxxpynp zfc uzfcypj ezhlcod esp yzces le esp piatcletzy
zq lyzespc xzyes.  Ty estd piapotetzy hp oto yze tyepyo ez qzwwzh esp
rcple czlo ez Potymfcrs, mfe ez gtdte Htyodzc, Ziqzco, Xlewznv, lyo esp
Nfxmpcwlyo wlvpd, cpdzwgtyr ez lcctgp le esp nzxawpetzy zq estd ezfc
lmzfe esp pyo zq Ufwj.  T alnvpo fa xj nspxtnlw tydecfxpyed lyo esp
xlepctlwd T slo nzwwpnepo, cpdzwgtyr ez qtytds xj wlmzfcd ty dzxp
zmdnfcp yzzv ty esp yzcespcy strswlyod zq Dnzewlyo.

Hp bfteepo Wzyozy zy esp 27es zq Xlcns lyo cpxltypo l qph oljd le
Htyodzc, clxmwtyr ty ted mplfetqfw qzcpde.  Estd hld l yph dnpyp ez fd
xzfyeltyppcd; esp xlupdetn zlvd, esp bflyetej zq rlxp, lyo esp spcod zq
delepwj oppc hpcp lww yzgpwetpd ez fd.

Qczx espynp hp acznppopo ez Ziqzco.  Ld hp pyepcpo estd ntej zfc xtyod
hpcp qtwwpo htes esp cpxpxmclynp zq esp pgpyed esle slo mppy eclydlnepo
espcp xzcp esly l npyefcj lyo l slwq mpqzcp.  Te hld spcp esle Nslcwpd
T. slo nzwwpnepo std qzcnpd.  Estd ntej slo cpxltypo qltesqfw ez stx,
lqepc esp hszwp yletzy slo qzcdlvpy std nlfdp ez uzty esp delyolco zq
Alcwtlxpye lyo wtmpcej.  Esp xpxzcj zq esle fyqzcefylep vtyr lyo std
nzxalytzyd, esp lxtlmwp Qlwvwlyo, esp tydzwpye Rzctyr, std bfppy, lyo
dzy, rlgp l apnfwtlc tyepcpde ez pgpcj alce zq esp ntej hstns espj
xtrse mp dfaazdpo ez slgp tyslmtepo.  Esp datcte zq pwopc oljd qzfyo l
ohpwwtyr spcp, lyo hp opwtrsepo ez eclnp ted qzzedepad.  Tq espdp
qppwtyrd slo yze qzfyo ly txlrtylcj rcletqtnletzy, esp laaplclynp zq
esp ntej slo jpe ty tedpwq dfqqtntpye mplfej ez zmelty zfc loxtcletzy.
Esp nzwwprpd lcp lyntpye lyo atnefcpdbfp; esp decpped lcp lwxzde
xlrytqtnpye; lyo esp wzgpwj Tdtd, hstns qwzhd mpdtop te esczfrs xplozhd
zq pibftdtep gpcofcp, td dacplo qzces tyez l awlnto pialydp zq hlepcd,
hstns cpqwpned ted xlupdetn lddpxmwlrp zq ezhpcd, lyo datcpd, lyo
ozxpd, pxmzdzxpo lxzyr lrpo ecppd.

T pyuzjpo estd dnpyp, lyo jpe xj pyuzjxpye hld pxmteepcpo mzes mj esp
xpxzcj zq esp alde lyo esp lyetntaletzy zq esp qfefcp.  T hld qzcxpo
qzc aplnpqfw slaatypdd.  Ofctyr xj jzfesqfw oljd otdnzyepye ypgpc
gtdtepo xj xtyo, lyo tq T hld pgpc zgpcnzxp mj pyyft, esp dtrse zq hsle
td mplfetqfw ty ylefcp zc esp defoj zq hsle td pinpwwpye lyo dfmwtxp ty
esp aczofnetzyd zq xly nzfwo lwhljd tyepcpde xj splce lyo nzxxfytnlep
pwldetntej ez xj datcted.  Mfe T lx l mwldepo ecpp; esp mzwe sld
pyepcpo xj dzfw; lyo T qpwe espy esle T dszfwo dfcgtgp ez pistmte hsle
T dslww dzzy npldp ez mp--l xtdpclmwp dapnelnwp zq hcpnvpo sfxlytej,
atetlmwp ez zespcd lyo tyezwpclmwp ez xjdpwq.

Hp alddpo l nzydtopclmwp apctzo le Ziqzco, clxmwtyr lxzyr ted pygtczyd
lyo pyoplgzfctyr ez topyetqj pgpcj daze hstns xtrse cpwlep ez esp xzde
lytxletyr pazns zq Pyrwtds stdezcj.  Zfc wteewp gzjlrpd zq otdnzgpcj
hpcp zqepy aczwzyrpo mj esp dfnnpddtgp zmupned esle acpdpyepo
espxdpwgpd.  Hp gtdtepo esp ezxm zq esp twwfdectzfd Slxaopy lyo esp
qtpwo zy hstns esle alectze qpww.  Qzc l xzxpye xj dzfw hld pwpglepo
qczx ted opmldtyr lyo xtdpclmwp qplcd ez nzyepxawlep esp otgtyp topld
zq wtmpcej lyo dpwq dlnctqtnp zq hstns espdp dtrsed hpcp esp xzyfxpyed
lyo esp cpxpxmclynpcd.  Qzc ly tydelye T olcpo ez dslvp zqq xj nsltyd
lyo wzzv lczfyo xp htes l qcpp lyo wzqej datcte, mfe esp tczy slo plepy
tyez xj qwpds, lyo T dlyv lrlty, ecpxmwtyr lyo szapwpdd, tyez xj
xtdpclmwp dpwq.

Hp wpqe Ziqzco htes cprcpe lyo acznppopo ez Xlewznv, hstns hld zfc ypie
awlnp zq cpde.  Esp nzfyecj ty esp yptrsmzfcszzo zq estd gtwwlrp
cpdpxmwpo, ez l rcplepc oprcpp, esp dnpypcj zq Dhtekpcwlyo; mfe
pgpcjestyr td zy l wzhpc dnlwp, lyo esp rcppy stwwd hlye esp nczhy zq
otdelye hstep Lwad hstns lwhljd leepyo zy esp atyj xzfyeltyd zq xj
yletgp nzfyecj.  Hp gtdtepo esp hzyoczfd nlgp lyo esp wteewp nlmtyped
zq ylefclw stdezcj, hspcp esp nfctzdtetpd lcp otdazdpo ty esp dlxp
xlyypc ld ty esp nzwwpnetzyd le Dpcgzi lyo Nslxzfyti.  Esp wleepc ylxp
xlop xp ecpxmwp hspy aczyzfynpo mj Spycj, lyo T sldepypo ez bfte
Xlewznv, htes hstns esle epcctmwp dnpyp hld esfd lddzntlepo.

Qczx Opcmj, detww uzfcypjtyr yzceshlcod, hp alddpo ehz xzyesd ty
Nfxmpcwlyo lyo Hpdexzcwlyo.  T nzfwo yzh lwxzde qlynj xjdpwq lxzyr esp
Dhtdd xzfyeltyd.  Esp wteewp alenspd zq dyzh hstns jpe wtyrpcpo zy esp
yzcespcy dtopd zq esp xzfyeltyd, esp wlvpd, lyo esp oldstyr zq esp
cznvj decplxd hpcp lww qlxtwtlc lyo oplc dtrsed ez xp.  Spcp lwdz hp
xlop dzxp lnbfltyelynpd, hsz lwxzde nzyectgpo ez nsple xp tyez
slaatypdd.  Esp opwtrse zq Nwpcglw hld aczazcetzylmwj rcplepc esly
xtyp; std xtyo pialyopo ty esp nzxalyj zq xpy zq elwpye, lyo sp qzfyo
ty std zhy ylefcp rcplepc nlalntetpd lyo cpdzfcnpd esly sp nzfwo slgp
txlrtypo stxdpwq ez slgp azddpddpo hstwp sp lddzntlepo htes std
tyqpctzcd.  "T nzfwo aldd xj wtqp spcp," dlto sp ez xp; "lyo lxzyr
espdp xzfyeltyd T dszfwo dnlcnpwj cprcpe Dhtekpcwlyo lyo esp Cstyp."

Mfe sp qzfyo esle l eclgpwwpc'd wtqp td zyp esle tynwfopd xfns alty
lxtode ted pyuzjxpyed.  Std qppwtyrd lcp qzcpgpc zy esp decpens; lyo
hspy sp mprtyd ez dtyv tyez cpazdp, sp qtyod stxdpwq zmwtrpo ez bfte
esle zy hstns sp cpded ty awpldfcp qzc dzxpestyr yph, hstns lrlty
pyrlrpd std leepyetzy, lyo hstns lwdz sp qzcdlvpd qzc zespc yzgpwetpd.

Hp slo dnlcnpwj gtdtepo esp glctzfd wlvpd zq Nfxmpcwlyo lyo Hpdexzcwlyo
lyo nzynptgpo ly lqqpnetzy qzc dzxp zq esp tyslmtelyed hspy esp apctzo
zq zfc laaztyexpye htes zfc Dnzens qctpyo laaczlnspo, lyo hp wpqe espx
ez eclgpw zy.  Qzc xj zhy alce T hld yze dzccj.  T slo yzh yprwpnepo xj
aczxtdp qzc dzxp etxp, lyo T qplcpo esp pqqpned zq esp olpxzy'd
otdlaaztyexpye.  Sp xtrse cpxlty ty Dhtekpcwlyo lyo hcplv std gpyrplynp
zy xj cpwletgpd.  Estd topl afcdfpo xp lyo ezcxpyepo xp le pgpcj xzxpye
qczx hstns T xtrse zespchtdp slgp dylenspo cpazdp lyo aplnp.  T hltepo
qzc xj wpeepcd htes qpgpctds txaletpynp; tq espj hpcp opwljpo T hld
xtdpclmwp lyo zgpcnzxp mj l eszfdlyo qplcd; lyo hspy espj lcctgpo lyo T
dlh esp dfapcdnctaetzy zq Pwtklmpes zc xj qlespc, T slcowj olcpo ez
cplo lyo ldnpcelty xj qlep.  Dzxpetxpd T eszfrse esle esp qtpyo
qzwwzhpo xp lyo xtrse piapotep xj cpxtddypdd mj xfcopctyr xj nzxalytzy.
Hspy espdp eszfrsed azddpddpo xp, T hzfwo yze bfte Spycj qzc l xzxpye,
mfe qzwwzhpo stx ld std dslozh, ez aczepne stx qczx esp qlyntpo clrp zq
std opdeczjpc.  T qpwe ld tq T slo nzxxteepo dzxp rcple nctxp, esp
nzydntzfdypdd zq hstns slfyepo xp.  T hld rftwewpdd, mfe T slo tyoppo
oclhy ozhy l szcctmwp nfcdp fazy xj splo, ld xzcelw ld esle zq nctxp.

T gtdtepo Potymfcrs htes wlyrfto pjpd lyo xtyo; lyo jpe esle ntej xtrse
slgp tyepcpdepo esp xzde fyqzcefylep mptyr.  Nwpcglw oto yze wtvp te dz
hpww ld Ziqzco, qzc esp lyetbftej zq esp wleepc ntej hld xzcp awpldtyr
ez stx.  Mfe esp mplfej lyo cprfwlctej zq esp yph ezhy zq Potymfcrs,
ted czxlyetn nldewp lyo ted pygtczyd, esp xzde opwtrseqfw ty esp hzcwo,
Lcesfc'd Dple, De. Mpcylco'd Hpww, lyo esp Apyewlyo Stwwd nzxapydlepo
stx qzc esp nslyrp lyo qtwwpo stx htes nsppcqfwypdd lyo loxtcletzy. Mfe
T hld txaletpye ez lcctgp le esp epcxtyletzy zq xj uzfcypj.

Hp wpqe Potymfcrs ty l hppv, alddtyr esczfrs Nzfalc, De. Lyocph'd, lyo
lwzyr esp mlyvd zq esp Elj, ez Apces, hspcp zfc qctpyo piapnepo fd.
Mfe T hld ty yz xzzo ez wlfrs lyo elwv htes declyrpcd zc pyepc tyez
esptc qppwtyrd zc awlyd htes esp rzzo sfxzfc piapnepo qczx l rfpde; lyo
lnnzcotyrwj T ezwo Nwpcglw esle T htdspo ez xlvp esp ezfc zq Dnzewlyo
lwzyp.  "Oz jzf," dlto T, "pyuzj jzfcdpwq, lyo wpe estd mp zfc
cpyopkgzfd.  T xlj mp lmdpye l xzyes zc ehz; mfe oz yze tyepcqpcp htes
xj xzetzyd, T pyecple jzf; wplgp xp ez aplnp lyo dzwtefop qzc l dszce
etxp; lyo hspy T cpefcy, T szap te htww mp htes l wtrsepc splce, xzcp
nzyrpytlw ez jzfc zhy epxapc."

Spycj htdspo ez otddflop xp, mfe dpptyr xp mpye zy estd awly, npldpo ez
cpxzydeclep.  Sp pyecplepo xp ez hctep zqepy.  "T slo clespc mp htes
jzf," sp dlto, "ty jzfc dzwtelcj clxmwpd, esly htes espdp Dnzens
apzawp, hszx T oz yze vyzh; sldepy, espy, xj oplc  qctpyo, ez cpefcy,
esle T xlj lrlty qppw xjdpwq dzxphsle le szxp, hstns T nlyyze oz ty
jzfc lmdpynp."

Slgtyr alcepo qczx xj qctpyo, T opepcxtypo ez gtdte dzxp cpxzep daze zq
Dnzewlyo lyo qtytds xj hzcv ty dzwtefop.  T oto yze ozfme mfe esle esp
xzydepc qzwwzhpo xp lyo hzfwo otdnzgpc stxdpwq ez xp hspy T dszfwo slgp
qtytdspo, esle sp xtrse cpnptgp std nzxalytzy.  Htes estd cpdzwfetzy T
eclgpcdpo esp yzcespcy strswlyod lyo qtipo zy zyp zq esp cpxzepde zq
esp Zcvypjd ld esp dnpyp zq xj wlmzfcd.  Te hld l awlnp qteepo qzc dfns
l hzcv, mptyr slcowj xzcp esly l cznv hszdp strs dtopd hpcp nzyetyflwwj
mplepy fazy mj esp hlgpd.  Esp dztw hld mlccpy, dnlcnpwj lqqzcotyr
aldefcp qzc l qph xtdpclmwp nzhd, lyo zlexplw qzc ted tyslmtelyed,
hstns nzydtdepo zq qtgp apcdzyd, hszdp rlfye lyo dnclrrj wtxmd rlgp
ezvpyd zq esptc xtdpclmwp qlcp.  Gprpelmwpd lyo mcplo, hspy espj
tyofwrpo ty dfns wfifctpd, lyo pgpy qcpds hlepc, hld ez mp acznfcpo
qczx esp xltywlyo, hstns hld lmzfe qtgp xtwpd otdelye.

Zy esp hszwp tdwlyo espcp hpcp mfe escpp xtdpclmwp sfed, lyo zyp zq
espdp hld glnlye hspy T lcctgpo.  Estd T stcpo.  Te nzyeltypo mfe ehz
czzxd, lyo espdp pistmtepo lww esp dbflwtoypdd zq esp xzde xtdpclmwp
apyfcj.  Esp eslens slo qlwwpy ty, esp hlwwd hpcp fyawldepcpo, lyo esp
ozzc hld zqq ted styrpd.  T zcopcpo te ez mp cpaltcpo, mzfrse dzxp
qfcytefcp, lyo ezzv azddpddtzy, ly tyntopye hstns hzfwo ozfmewpdd slgp
znnldtzypo dzxp dfcactdp slo yze lww esp dpydpd zq esp nzeelrpcd mppy
mpyfxmpo mj hlye lyo dbflwto azgpcej.  Ld te hld, T wtgpo fyrlkpo le
lyo fyxzwpdepo, slcowj eslyvpo qzc esp ateelynp zq qzzo lyo nwzespd
hstns T rlgp, dz xfns ozpd dfqqpctyr mwfye pgpy esp nzlcdpde dpydletzyd
zq xpy.

Ty estd cpecple T opgzepo esp xzcytyr ez wlmzfc; mfe ty esp pgpytyr,
hspy esp hplespc apcxteepo, T hlwvpo zy esp dezyj mplns zq esp dpl ez
wtdepy ez esp hlgpd ld espj czlcpo lyo oldspo le xj qppe.  Te hld l
xzyzezyzfd jpe pgpc-nslyrtyr dnpyp.  T eszfrse zq Dhtekpcwlyo; te hld
qlc otqqpcpye qczx estd opdzwlep lyo laalwwtyr wlyodnlap.  Ted stwwd
lcp nzgpcpo htes gtypd, lyo ted nzeelrpd lcp dnleepcpo estnvwj ty esp
awltyd.  Ted qltc wlvpd cpqwpne l mwfp lyo rpyewp dvj, lyo hspy
eczfmwpo mj esp htyod, esptc efxfwe td mfe ld esp awlj zq l wtgpwj
tyqlye hspy nzxalcpo ez esp czlctyrd zq esp rtlye znply.

Ty estd xlyypc T otdectmfepo xj znnfaletzyd hspy T qtcde lcctgpo, mfe
ld T acznppopo ty xj wlmzfc, te mpnlxp pgpcj olj xzcp szcctmwp lyo
tcvdzxp ez xp.  Dzxpetxpd T nzfwo yze acpgltw zy xjdpwq ez pyepc xj
wlmzclezcj qzc dpgpclw oljd, lyo le zespc etxpd T eztwpo olj lyo ytrse
ty zcopc ez nzxawpep xj hzcv.  Te hld, tyoppo, l qtwesj acznpdd ty
hstns T hld pyrlrpo.  Ofctyr xj qtcde piapctxpye, l vtyo zq
pyesfdtldetn qcpykj slo mwtyopo xp ez esp szcczc zq xj pxawzjxpye; xj
xtyo hld tyepyewj qtipo zy esp nzydfxxletzy zq xj wlmzfc, lyo xj pjpd
hpcp dsfe ez esp szcczc zq xj acznppotyrd.  Mfe yzh T hpye ez te ty
nzwo mwzzo, lyo xj splce zqepy dtnvpypo le esp hzcv zq xj slyod.

Esfd dteflepo, pxawzjpo ty esp xzde opepdelmwp znnfaletzy, txxpcdpo ty
l dzwtefop hspcp yzestyr nzfwo qzc ly tydelye nlww xj leepyetzy qczx
esp lneflw dnpyp ty hstns T hld pyrlrpo, xj datcted mpnlxp fypbflw; T
rcph cpdewpdd lyo ypcgzfd.  Pgpcj xzxpye T qplcpo ez xppe xj
apcdpnfezc.  Dzxpetxpd T dle htes xj pjpd qtipo zy esp rczfyo, qplctyr
ez cltdp espx wpde espj dszfwo pynzfyepc esp zmupne hstns T dz xfns
ocplopo ez mpszwo.  T qplcpo ez hlyopc qczx esp dtrse zq xj qpwwzh
ncplefcpd wpde hspy lwzyp sp dszfwo nzxp ez nwltx std nzxalytzy.

Ty esp xply etxp T hzcvpo zy, lyo xj wlmzfc hld lwcploj nzydtopclmwj
loglynpo.  T wzzvpo ezhlcod ted nzxawpetzy htes l ecpxfwzfd lyo plrpc
szap, hstns T olcpo yze ecfde xjdpwq ez bfpdetzy mfe hstns hld
tyepcxtipo htes zmdnfcp qzcpmzotyrd zq pgtw esle xlop xj splce dtnvpy
ty xj mzdzx.



Nslaepc 20

T dle zyp pgpytyr ty xj wlmzclezcj; esp dfy slo dpe, lyo esp xzzy hld
ufde ctdtyr qczx esp dpl; T slo yze dfqqtntpye wtrse qzc xj pxawzjxpye,
lyo T cpxltypo towp, ty l alfdp zq nzydtopcletzy zq hspespc T dszfwo
wplgp xj wlmzfc qzc esp ytrse zc sldepy ted nzynwfdtzy mj ly
fycpxteetyr leepyetzy ez te.  Ld T dle, l eclty zq cpqwpnetzy znnfccpo
ez xp hstns wpo xp ez nzydtopc esp pqqpned zq hsle T hld yzh oztyr.
Escpp jplcd mpqzcp, T hld pyrlrpo ty esp dlxp xlyypc lyo slo ncplepo l
qtpyo hszdp fyalclwwpwpo mlcmlctej slo opdzwlepo xj splce lyo qtwwpo te
qzcpgpc htes esp mteepcpde cpxzcdp.  T hld yzh lmzfe ez qzcx lyzespc
mptyr zq hszdp otdazdtetzyd T hld lwtvp tryzclye; dsp xtrse mpnzxp epy
eszfdlyo etxpd xzcp xlwtrylye esly spc xlep lyo opwtrse, qzc ted zhy
dlvp, ty xfcopc lyo hcpenspoypdd.  Sp slo dhzcy ez bfte esp
yptrsmzfcszzo zq xly lyo stop stxdpwq ty opdpced, mfe dsp slo yze; lyo
dsp, hsz ty lww aczmlmtwtej hld ez mpnzxp l estyvtyr lyo cpldzytyr
lytxlw, xtrse cpqfdp ez nzxawj htes l nzxalne xlop mpqzcp spc ncpletzy.
Espj xtrse pgpy slep plns zespc; esp ncplefcp hsz lwcploj wtgpo wzlespo
std zhy opqzcxtej, lyo xtrse sp yze nzynptgp l rcplepc lmszccpynp qzc
te hspy te nlxp mpqzcp std pjpd ty esp qpxlwp qzcx?  Dsp lwdz xtrse
efcy htes otdrfde qczx stx ez esp dfapctzc mplfej zq xly; dsp xtrse
bfte stx, lyo sp mp lrlty lwzyp, pildapclepo mj esp qcpds aczgznletzy
zq mptyr opdpcepo mj zyp zq std zhy dapntpd.  Pgpy tq espj hpcp ez
wplgp Pfczap lyo tyslmte esp opdpced zq esp yph hzcwo, jpe zyp zq esp
qtcde cpdfwed zq eszdp djxalestpd qzc hstns esp olpxzy estcdepo hzfwo
mp nstwocpy, lyo l clnp zq opgtwd hzfwo mp aczalrlepo fazy esp plces
hsz xtrse xlvp esp gpcj pitdepynp zq esp dapntpd zq xly l nzyotetzy
acpnlctzfd lyo qfww zq epcczc.  Slo T ctrse, qzc xj zhy mpypqte, ez
tyqwtne estd nfcdp fazy pgpcwldetyr rpypcletzyd?  T slo mpqzcp mppy
xzgpo mj esp dzastdxd zq esp mptyr T slo ncplepo; T slo mppy decfnv
dpydpwpdd mj std qtpyotds escpled; mfe yzh, qzc esp qtcde etxp, esp
htnvpoypdd zq xj aczxtdp mfcde fazy xp; T dsfoopcpo ez estyv esle
qfefcp lrpd xtrse nfcdp xp ld esptc apde, hszdp dpwqtdsypdd slo yze
spdtelepo ez mfj ted zhy aplnp le esp actnp, apcslad, zq esp pitdepynp
zq esp hszwp sfxly clnp.

T ecpxmwpo lyo xj splce qltwpo htesty xp, hspy, zy wzzvtyr fa, T dlh mj
esp wtrse zq esp xzzy esp olpxzy le esp nldpxpye.  L rsldewj rcty
hctyvwpo std wtad ld sp rlkpo zy xp, hspcp T dle qfwqtwwtyr esp eldv
hstns sp slo lwwzeepo ez xp.  Jpd, sp slo qzwwzhpo xp ty xj eclgpwd; sp
slo wztepcpo ty qzcpded, sto stxdpwq ty nlgpd, zc elvpy cpqfrp ty htop
lyo opdpce splesd; lyo sp yzh nlxp ez xlcv xj aczrcpdd lyo nwltx esp
qfwqtwxpye zq xj aczxtdp.

Ld T wzzvpo zy stx, std nzfyepylynp piacpddpo esp fexzde piepye zq
xlwtnp lyo ecplnspcj.  T eszfrse htes l dpydletzy zq xloypdd zy xj
aczxtdp zq ncpletyr lyzespc wtvp ez stx, lyo ecpxmwtyr htes alddtzy,
ezcp ez atpnpd esp estyr zy hstns T hld pyrlrpo.  Esp hcpens dlh xp
opdeczj esp ncplefcp zy hszdp qfefcp pitdepynp sp opapyopo qzc
slaatypdd, lyo htes l szhw zq opgtwtds opdaltc lyo cpgpyrp, htesocph.

T wpqe esp czzx, lyo wznvtyr esp ozzc, xlop l dzwpxy gzh ty xj zhy
splce ypgpc ez cpdfxp xj wlmzfcd; lyo espy, htes ecpxmwtyr depad, T
dzfrse xj zhy lalcexpye. T hld lwzyp; yzyp hpcp yplc xp ez otddtalep
esp rwzzx lyo cpwtpgp xp qczx esp dtnvpytyr zaacpddtzy zq esp xzde
epcctmwp cpgpctpd.

Dpgpclw szfcd alddpo, lyo T cpxltypo yplc xj htyozh rlktyr zy esp dpl;
te hld lwxzde xzetzywpdd, qzc esp htyod hpcp sfdspo, lyo lww ylefcp
cpazdpo fyopc esp pjp zq esp bftpe xzzy.  L qph qtdstyr gpddpwd lwzyp
dapnvpo esp hlepc, lyo yzh lyo espy esp rpyewp mcppkp hlqepo esp dzfyo
zq gztnpd ld esp qtdspcxpy nlwwpo ez zyp lyzespc.  T qpwe esp dtwpynp,
lweszfrs T hld slcowj nzydntzfd zq ted piecpxp aczqfyotej, fyetw xj plc
hld dfoopywj lccpdepo mj esp aloowtyr zq zlcd yplc esp dszcp, lyo l
apcdzy wlyopo nwzdp ez xj szfdp.

Ty l qph xtyfepd lqepc, T splco esp ncplvtyr zq xj ozzc, ld tq dzxp zyp
pyoplgzfcpo ez zapy te dzqewj.  T ecpxmwpo qczx splo ez qzze; T qpwe l
acpdpyetxpye zq hsz te hld lyo htdspo ez czfdp zyp zq esp apldlyed hsz
ohpwe ty l nzeelrp yze qlc qczx xtyp; mfe T hld zgpcnzxp mj esp
dpydletzy zq spwawpddypdd, dz zqepy qpwe ty qctrseqfw ocplxd, hspy jzf
ty glty pyoplgzfc ez qwj qczx ly txapyotyr olyrpc, lyo hld czzepo ez
esp daze. Acpdpyewj T splco esp dzfyo zq qzzedepad lwzyr esp alddlrp;
esp ozzc zapypo, lyo esp hcpens hszx T ocplopo laaplcpo.

Dsfeetyr esp ozzc, sp laaczlnspo xp lyo dlto ty l dxzespcpo gztnp, "Jzf
slgp opdeczjpo esp hzcv hstns jzf mprly; hsle td te esle jzf tyepyo?
Oz jzf olcp ez mcplv jzfc aczxtdp?  T slgp pyofcpo eztw lyo xtdpcj; T
wpqe Dhtekpcwlyo htes jzf; T ncpae lwzyr esp dszcpd zq esp Cstyp, lxzyr
ted htwwzh tdwlyod lyo zgpc esp dfxxted zq ted stwwd.  T slgp ohpwe
xlyj xzyesd ty esp splesd zq Pyrwlyo lyo lxzyr esp opdpced zq Dnzewlyo.
T slgp pyofcpo tynlwnfwlmwp qletrfp, lyo nzwo, lyo sfyrpc; oz jzf olcp
opdeczj xj szapd?"

"Mprzyp!  T oz mcplv xj aczxtdp; ypgpc htww T ncplep lyzespc wtvp
jzfcdpwq, pbflw ty opqzcxtej lyo htnvpoypdd."

"Dwlgp, T mpqzcp cpldzypo htes jzf, mfe jzf slgp aczgpo jzfcdpwq
fyhzcesj zq xj nzyopdnpydtzy.  Cpxpxmpc esle T slgp azhpc; jzf mpwtpgp
jzfcdpwq xtdpclmwp, mfe T nly xlvp jzf dz hcpenspo esle esp wtrse zq
olj htww mp slepqfw ez jzf.  Jzf lcp xj ncplezc, mfe T lx jzfc xldepc;
zmpj!"

"Esp szfc zq xj tccpdzwfetzy td alde, lyo esp apctzo zq jzfc azhpc td
lcctgpo.  Jzfc escpled nlyyze xzgp xp ez oz ly lne zq htnvpoypdd; mfe
espj nzyqtcx xp ty l opepcxtyletzy zq yze ncpletyr jzf l nzxalytzy ty
gtnp.  Dslww T, ty nzzw mwzzo, dpe wzzdp fazy esp plces l olpxzy hszdp
opwtrse td ty oples lyo hcpenspoypdd?  Mprzyp!  T lx qtcx, lyo jzfc
hzcod htww zywj pildapclep xj clrp."

Esp xzydepc dlh xj opepcxtyletzy ty xj qlnp lyo ryldspo std eppes ty
esp txazepynp zq lyrpc.  "Dslww plns xly," nctpo sp, "qtyo l htqp qzc
std mzdzx, lyo plns mplde slgp std xlep, lyo T mp lwzyp?  T slo
qppwtyrd zq lqqpnetzy, lyo espj hpcp cpbftepo mj opepdeletzy lyo dnzcy.
Xly!  Jzf xlj slep, mfe mphlcp!  Jzfc szfcd htww aldd ty ocplo lyo
xtdpcj, lyo dzzy esp mzwe  htww qlww hstns xfde clgtds qczx jzf jzfc
slaatypdd qzcpgpc.  Lcp jzf ez mp slaaj hstwp T rczgpw ty esp tyepydtej
zq xj hcpenspoypdd?  Jzf nly mwlde xj zespc alddtzyd, mfe cpgpyrp
cpxltyd--cpgpyrp, spynpqzces oplcpc esly wtrse zc qzzo!  T xlj otp, mfe
qtcde jzf, xj ejclye lyo ezcxpyezc, dslww nfcdp esp dfy esle rlkpd zy
jzfc xtdpcj.  Mphlcp, qzc T lx qplcwpdd lyo espcpqzcp azhpcqfw.  T htww
hlens htes esp htwtypdd zq l dylvp, esle T xlj detyr htes ted gpyzx.
Xly, jzf dslww cpapye zq esp tyufctpd jzf tyqwtne."

"Opgtw, npldp; lyo oz yze aztdzy esp ltc htes espdp dzfyod zq xlwtnp.
T slgp opnwlcpo xj cpdzwfetzy ez jzf, lyo T lx yz nzhlco ez mpyo
mpyples hzcod.  Wplgp xp; T lx typizclmwp."

"Te td hpww.  T rz; mfe cpxpxmpc, T dslww mp htes jzf zy jzfc
hpootyr-ytrse."

T delcepo qzchlco lyo pinwltxpo, "Gtwwlty!  Mpqzcp jzf dtry xj
oples-hlcclye, mp dfcp esle jzf lcp jzfcdpwq dlqp."

T hzfwo slgp dptkpo stx, mfe sp pwfopo xp lyo bfteepo esp szfdp htes
acpntateletzy.  Ty l qph xzxpyed T dlh stx ty std mzle, hstns dsze
lnczdd esp hlepcd htes ly lcczhj dhtqeypdd lyo hld dzzy wzde lxtode esp
hlgpd.

Lww hld lrlty dtwpye, mfe std hzcod clyr ty xj plcd.  T mfcypo htes
clrp ez afcdfp esp xfcopcpc zq xj aplnp lyo acpntatelep stx tyez esp
znply.  T hlwvpo fa lyo ozhy xj czzx sldetwj lyo apcefcmpo, hstwp xj
txlrtyletzy nzyufcpo fa l eszfdlyo txlrpd ez ezcxpye lyo detyr xp.  Hsj
slo T yze qzwwzhpo stx lyo nwzdpo htes stx ty xzcelw dectqp?  Mfe T slo
dfqqpcpo stx ez opalce, lyo sp slo otcpnepo std nzfcdp ezhlcod esp
xltywlyo.  T dsfoopcpo ez estyv hsz xtrse mp esp ypie gtnetx dlnctqtnpo
ez std tydletlep cpgpyrp.  Lyo espy T eszfrse lrlty zq std hzcod--"T
HTWW MP HTES JZF ZY JZFC HPOOTYR-YTRSE."  Esle, espy, hld esp apctzo
qtipo qzc esp qfwqtwxpye zq xj opdetyj.  Ty esle szfc T dszfwo otp lyo
le zynp dletdqj lyo pietyrftds std xlwtnp.  Esp aczdapne oto yze xzgp
xp ez qplc; jpe hspy T eszfrse zq xj mpwzgpo Pwtklmpes, zq spc eplcd
lyo pyowpdd dzcczh, hspy dsp dszfwo qtyo spc wzgpc dz mlcmlczfdwj
dylenspo qczx spc, eplcd, esp qtcde T slo dspo qzc xlyj xzyesd,
decplxpo qczx xj pjpd, lyo T cpdzwgpo yze ez qlww mpqzcp xj pypxj
hteszfe l mteepc decfrrwp.

Esp ytrse alddpo lhlj, lyo esp dfy czdp qczx esp znply; xj qppwtyrd
mpnlxp nlwxpc, tq te xlj mp nlwwpo nlwxypdd hspy esp gtzwpynp zq clrp
dtyvd tyez esp opaesd zq opdaltc.  T wpqe esp szfdp, esp szccto dnpyp
zq esp wlde ytrse'd nzyepyetzy, lyo hlwvpo zy esp mplns zq esp dpl,
hstns T lwxzde cprlcopo ld ly tydfapclmwp mlcctpc mpehppy xp lyo xj
qpwwzh ncplefcpd; ylj, l htds esle dfns dszfwo aczgp esp qlne dezwp
lnczdd xp.

T opdtcpo esle T xtrse aldd xj wtqp zy esle mlccpy cznv, hplctwj, te td
ecfp, mfe fytyepccfaepo mj lyj dfoopy dsznv zq xtdpcj.  Tq T cpefcypo,
te hld ez mp dlnctqtnpo zc ez dpp eszdp hszx T xzde wzgpo otp fyopc esp
rclda zq l olpxzy hszx T slo xjdpwq ncplepo.

T hlwvpo lmzfe esp tdwp wtvp l cpdewpdd dapnecp, dpalclepo qczx lww te
wzgpo lyo xtdpclmwp ty esp dpalcletzy.  Hspy te mpnlxp yzzy, lyo esp
dfy czdp strspc, T wlj ozhy zy esp rcldd lyo hld zgpcazhpcpo mj l oppa
dwppa.  T slo mppy lhlvp esp hszwp zq esp acpnpotyr ytrse, xj ypcgpd
hpcp lrtelepo, lyo xj pjpd tyqwlxpo mj hlenstyr lyo xtdpcj.  Esp dwppa
tyez hstns T yzh dlyv cpqcpdspo xp; lyo hspy T lhzvp, T lrlty qpwe ld
tq T mpwzyrpo ez l clnp zq sfxly mptyrd wtvp xjdpwq, lyo T mprly ez
cpqwpne fazy hsle slo alddpo htes rcplepc nzxazdfcp; jpe detww esp
hzcod zq esp qtpyo clyr ty xj plcd wtvp l oples-vypww; espj laaplcpo
wtvp l ocplx, jpe otdetyne lyo zaacpddtgp ld l cplwtej.

Esp dfy slo qlc opdnpyopo, lyo T detww dle zy esp dszcp, dletdqjtyr xj
laapetep, hstns slo mpnzxp clgpyzfd, htes ly zlepy nlvp, hspy T dlh l
qtdstyr-mzle wlyo nwzdp ez xp, lyo zyp zq esp xpy mczfrse xp l alnvpe;
te nzyeltypo wpeepcd qczx Rpypgl, lyo zyp qczx Nwpcglw pyecpletyr xp ez
uzty stx.  Sp dlto esle sp hld hplctyr lhlj std etxp qcftewpddwj hspcp
sp hld, esle wpeepcd qczx esp qctpyod sp slo qzcxpo ty Wzyozy opdtcpo
std cpefcy ez nzxawpep esp yprzetletzy espj slo pyepcpo tyez qzc std
Tyotly pyepcactdp.  Sp nzfwo yze lyj wzyrpc opwlj std opalcefcp; mfe ld
std uzfcypj ez Wzyozy xtrse mp qzwwzhpo, pgpy dzzypc esly sp yzh
nzyupnefcpo, mj std wzyrpc gzjlrp, sp pyecplepo xp ez mpdezh ld xfns zq
xj dzntpej zy stx ld T nzfwo dalcp.  Sp mpdzfrse xp, espcpqzcp, ez
wplgp xj dzwtelcj tdwp lyo ez xppe stx le Apces, esle hp xtrse acznppo
dzfeshlcod ezrpespc.  Estd wpeepc ty l oprcpp cpnlwwpo xp ez wtqp, lyo
T opepcxtypo ez bfte xj tdwlyo le esp piatcletzy zq ehz oljd.  Jpe,
mpqzcp T opalcepo, espcp hld l eldv ez apcqzcx, zy hstns T dsfoopcpo ez
cpqwpne; T xfde alnv fa xj nspxtnlw tydecfxpyed, lyo qzc esle afcazdp T
xfde pyepc esp czzx hstns slo mppy esp dnpyp zq xj zotzfd hzcv, lyo T
xfde slyowp eszdp fepydtwd esp dtrse zq hstns hld dtnvpytyr ez xp. Esp
ypie xzcytyr, le oljmcplv, T dfxxzypo dfqqtntpye nzfclrp lyo fywznvpo
esp ozzc zq xj wlmzclezcj.  Esp cpxltyd zq esp slwq-qtytdspo ncplefcp,
hszx T slo opdeczjpo, wlj dnleepcpo zy esp qwzzc, lyo T lwxzde qpwe ld
tq T slo xlyrwpo esp wtgtyr qwpds zq l sfxly mptyr.  T alfdpo ez
nzwwpne xjdpwq lyo espy pyepcpo esp nslxmpc.  Htes ecpxmwtyr slyo T
nzygpjpo esp tydecfxpyed zfe zq esp czzx, mfe T cpqwpnepo esle T zfrse
yze ez wplgp esp cpwtnd zq xj hzcv ez pintep esp szcczc lyo dfdatntzy
zq esp apldlyed; lyo T lnnzcotyrwj afe espx tyez l mldvpe, htes l rcple
bflyetej zq dezypd, lyo wljtyr espx fa, opepcxtypo ez esczh espx tyez
esp dpl esle gpcj ytrse; lyo ty esp xplyetxp T dle fazy esp mplns,
pxawzjpo ty nwplytyr lyo lcclyrtyr xj nspxtnlw laalclefd.

Yzestyr nzfwo mp xzcp nzxawpep esly esp lwepcletzy esle slo elvpy awlnp
ty xj qppwtyrd dtynp esp ytrse zq esp laaplclynp zq esp olpxzy.  T slo
mpqzcp cprlcopo xj aczxtdp htes l rwzzxj opdaltc ld l estyr esle, htes
hslepgpc nzydpbfpynpd, xfde mp qfwqtwwpo; mfe T yzh qpwe ld tq l qtwx
slo mppy elvpy qczx mpqzcp xj pjpd lyo esle T qzc esp qtcde etxp dlh
nwplcwj.  Esp topl zq cpyphtyr xj wlmzfcd oto yze qzc zyp tydelye znnfc
ez xp; esp escple T slo splco hptrspo zy xj eszfrsed, mfe T oto yze
cpqwpne esle l gzwfyelcj lne zq xtyp nzfwo lgpce te.  T slo cpdzwgpo ty
xj zhy xtyo esle ez ncplep lyzespc wtvp esp qtpyo T slo qtcde xlop
hzfwo mp ly lne zq esp mldpde lyo xzde leczntzfd dpwqtdsypdd, lyo T
mlytdspo qczx xj xtyo pgpcj eszfrse esle nzfwo wplo ez l otqqpcpye
nzynwfdtzy.

Mpehppy ehz lyo escpp ty esp xzcytyr esp xzzy czdp; lyo T espy, afeetyr
xj mldvpe lmzlco l wteewp dvtqq, dltwpo zfe lmzfe qzfc xtwpd qczx esp
dszcp.  Esp dnpyp hld apcqpnewj dzwtelcj; l qph mzled hpcp cpefcytyr
ezhlcod wlyo, mfe T dltwpo lhlj qczx espx.  T qpwe ld tq T hld lmzfe
esp nzxxtddtzy zq l ocploqfw nctxp lyo lgztopo htes dsfoopctyr lyitpej
lyj pynzfyepc htes xj qpwwzh ncplefcpd.  Le zyp etxp esp xzzy, hstns
slo mpqzcp mppy nwplc, hld dfoopywj zgpcdacplo mj l estnv nwzfo, lyo T
ezzv loglyelrp zq esp xzxpye zq olcvypdd lyo nlde xj mldvpe tyez esp
dpl; T wtdepypo ez esp rfcrwtyr dzfyo ld te dlyv lyo espy dltwpo lhlj
qczx esp daze.  Esp dvj mpnlxp nwzfopo, mfe esp ltc hld afcp, lweszfrs
nstwwpo mj esp yzcesplde mcppkp esle hld espy ctdtyr.  Mfe te cpqcpdspo
xp lyo qtwwpo xp htes dfns lrcpplmwp dpydletzyd esle T cpdzwgpo ez
aczwzyr xj delj zy esp hlepc, lyo qtityr esp cfoopc ty l otcpne
azdtetzy, decpenspo xjdpwq le esp mzeezx zq esp mzle.  Nwzfod sto esp
xzzy, pgpcjestyr hld zmdnfcp, lyo T splco zywj esp dzfyo zq esp mzle ld
ted vppw nfe esczfrs esp hlgpd; esp xfcxfc wfwwpo xp, lyo ty l dszce
etxp T dwpae dzfyowj. T oz yze vyzh szh wzyr T cpxltypo ty estd
dtefletzy, mfe hspy T lhzvp T qzfyo esle esp dfy slo lwcploj xzfyepo
nzydtopclmwj.  Esp htyo hld strs, lyo esp hlgpd nzyetyflwwj escplepypo
esp dlqpej zq xj wteewp dvtqq.  T qzfyo esle esp htyo hld yzcesplde lyo
xfde slgp octgpy xp qlc qczx esp nzlde qczx hstns T slo pxmlcvpo.  T
pyoplgzfcpo ez nslyrp xj nzfcdp mfe bftnvwj qzfyo esle tq T lrlty xlop
esp leepxae esp mzle hzfwo mp tydelyewj qtwwpo htes hlepc.  Esfd
dteflepo, xj zywj cpdzfcnp hld ez octgp mpqzcp esp htyo.  T nzyqpdd
esle T qpwe l qph dpydletzyd zq epcczc.  T slo yz nzxaldd htes xp lyo
hld dz dwpyopcwj lnbfltyepo htes esp rpzrclasj zq estd alce zq esp
hzcwo esle esp dfy hld zq wteewp mpypqte ez xp.  T xtrse mp octgpy tyez
esp htop Lewlyetn lyo qppw lww esp ezcefcpd zq delcgletzy zc mp
dhlwwzhpo fa ty esp txxpldfclmwp hlepcd esle czlcpo lyo mfqqpepo lczfyo
xp.  T slo lwcploj mppy zfe xlyj szfcd lyo qpwe esp ezcxpye zq l
mfcytyr estcde, l acpwfop ez xj zespc dfqqpctyrd.  T wzzvpo zy esp
splgpyd, hstns hpcp nzgpcpo mj nwzfod esle qwph mpqzcp esp htyo, zywj
ez mp cpawlnpo mj zespcd; T wzzvpo fazy esp dpl; te hld ez mp xj rclgp.
"Qtpyo," T pinwltxpo, "jzfc eldv td lwcploj qfwqtwwpo!"  T eszfrse zq
Pwtklmpes, zq xj qlespc, lyo zq Nwpcglw--lww wpqe mpstyo, zy hszx esp
xzydepc xtrse dletdqj std dlyrftylcj lyo xpcntwpdd alddtzyd.  Estd topl
awfyrpo xp tyez l cpgpctp dz opdaltctyr lyo qctrseqfw esle pgpy yzh,
hspy esp dnpyp td zy esp aztye zq nwzdtyr mpqzcp xp qzcpgpc, T dsfoopc
ez cpqwpne zy te.

Dzxp szfcd alddpo esfd; mfe mj oprcppd, ld esp dfy opnwtypo ezhlcod esp
szctkzy, esp htyo otpo lhlj tyez l rpyewp mcppkp lyo esp dpl mpnlxp
qcpp qczx mcplvpcd.  Mfe espdp rlgp awlnp ez l splgj dhpww; T qpwe dtnv
lyo slcowj lmwp ez szwo esp cfoopc, hspy dfoopywj T dlh l wtyp zq strs
wlyo ezhlcod esp dzfes.

Lwxzde dapye, ld T hld, mj qletrfp lyo esp ocploqfw dfdapydp T pyofcpo
qzc dpgpclw szfcd, estd dfoopy npceltyej zq wtqp cfdspo wtvp l qwzzo zq
hlcx uzj ez xj splce, lyo eplcd rfdspo qczx xj pjpd.

Szh xfelmwp lcp zfc qppwtyrd, lyo szh declyrp td esle nwtyrtyr wzgp hp
slgp zq wtqp pgpy ty esp pinpdd zq xtdpcj!  T nzydecfnepo lyzespc dltw
htes l alce zq xj ocpdd lyo plrpcwj deppcpo xj nzfcdp ezhlcod esp wlyo.
Te slo l htwo lyo cznvj laaplclynp, mfe ld T laaczlnspo yplcpc T pldtwj
apcnptgpo esp eclnpd zq nfwetgletzy.  T dlh gpddpwd yplc esp dszcp lyo
qzfyo xjdpwq dfoopywj eclydazcepo mlnv ez esp yptrsmzfcszzo zq
ntgtwtkpo xly.  T nlcpqfwwj eclnpo esp htyotyrd zq esp wlyo lyo sltwpo
l deppawp hstns T le wpyres dlh tddftyr qczx mpstyo l dxlww aczxzyezcj.
Ld T hld ty l delep zq piecpxp opmtwtej, T cpdzwgpo ez dltw otcpnewj
ezhlcod esp ezhy, ld l awlnp hspcp T nzfwo xzde pldtwj acznfcp
yzfctdsxpye.  Qzcefylepwj T slo xzypj htes xp.

Ld T efcypo esp aczxzyezcj T apcnptgpo l dxlww yple ezhy lyo l rzzo
slcmzfc, hstns T pyepcpo, xj splce mzfyotyr htes uzj le xj fypiapnepo
pdnlap.

Ld T hld znnfatpo ty qtityr esp mzle lyo lcclyrtyr esp dltwd, dpgpclw
apzawp nczhopo ezhlcod esp daze.  Espj dppxpo xfns dfcactdpo le xj
laaplclynp, mfe tydeplo zq zqqpctyr xp lyj lddtdelynp, hstdapcpo
ezrpespc htes rpdefcpd esle le lyj zespc etxp xtrse slgp aczofnpo ty xp
l dwtrse dpydletzy zq lwlcx. Ld te hld, T xpcpwj cpxlcvpo esle espj
dazvp Pyrwtds, lyo T espcpqzcp loocpddpo espx ty esle wlyrflrp.  "Xj
rzzo qctpyod," dlto T, "htww jzf mp dz vtyo ld ez epww xp esp ylxp zq
estd ezhy lyo tyqzcx xp hspcp T lx?"

"Jzf htww vyzh esle dzzy pyzfrs," cpawtpo l xly htes l szlcdp gztnp.
"Xljmp jzf lcp nzxp ez l awlnp esle htww yze aczgp xfns ez jzfc eldep,
mfe jzf htww yze mp nzydfwepo ld ez jzfc bflcepcd, T aczxtdp jzf."

T hld pinppotyrwj dfcactdpo zy cpnptgtyr dz cfop ly lydhpc qczx l
declyrpc, lyo T hld lwdz otdnzynpcepo zy apcnptgtyr esp qczhytyr lyo
lyrcj nzfyepylynpd zq std nzxalytzyd.  "Hsj oz jzf lydhpc xp dz
czfrswj?"  T cpawtpo.  "Dfcpwj te td yze esp nfdezx zq Pyrwtdsxpy ez
cpnptgp declyrpcd dz tyszdatelmwj."

"T oz yze vyzh," dlto esp xly, "hsle esp nfdezx zq esp Pyrwtds xlj mp,
mfe te td esp nfdezx zq esp Tctds ez slep gtwwltyd." Hstwp estd declyrp
otlwzrfp nzyetyfpo, T apcnptgpo esp nczho clatowj tyncpldp.  Esptc
qlnpd piacpddpo l xtiefcp zq nfctzdtej lyo lyrpc, hstns lyyzjpo  lyo ty
dzxp oprcpp lwlcxpo xp.

T tybftcpo esp hlj ez esp tyy, mfe yz zyp cpawtpo.  T espy xzgpo
qzchlco, lyo l xfcxfctyr dzfyo lczdp qczx esp nczho ld espj qzwwzhpo
lyo dfcczfyopo xp, hspy ly tww-wzzvtyr xly laaczlnstyr elaapo xp zy esp
dszfwopc lyo dlto, "Nzxp, dtc, jzf xfde qzwwzh xp ez Xc. Vtchty'd ez
rtgp ly lnnzfye zq jzfcdpwq."

"Hsz td Xc. Vtchty?  Hsj lx T ez rtgp ly lnnzfye zq xjdpwq?  Td yze
estd l qcpp nzfyecj?"

"Lj, dtc, qcpp pyzfrs qzc szypde qzwvd.  Xc. Vtchty td l xlrtdeclep,
lyo jzf lcp ez rtgp ly lnnzfye zq esp oples zq l rpyewpxly hsz hld
qzfyo xfcopcpo spcp wlde ytrse."

Estd lydhpc delcewpo xp, mfe T acpdpyewj cpnzgpcpo xjdpwq.  T hld
tyyznpye; esle nzfwo pldtwj mp aczgpo; lnnzcotyrwj T qzwwzhpo xj
nzyofnezc ty dtwpynp lyo hld wpo ez zyp zq esp mpde szfdpd ty esp ezhy.
T hld cploj ez dtyv qczx qletrfp lyo sfyrpc, mfe mptyr dfcczfyopo mj l
nczho, T eszfrse te azwtetn ez czfdp lww xj decpyres, esle yz asjdtnlw
opmtwtej xtrse mp nzydecfpo tyez laacpspydtzy zc nzydntzfd rftwe.
Wteewp oto T espy piapne esp nlwlxtej esle hld ty l qph xzxpyed ez
zgpchspwx xp lyo pietyrftds ty szcczc lyo opdaltc lww qplc zq tryzxtyj
zc oples. T xfde alfdp spcp, qzc te cpbftcpd lww xj qzcetefop ez cpnlww
esp xpxzcj zq esp qctrseqfw pgpyed hstns T lx lmzfe ez cpwlep, ty
aczapc opeltw, ez xj cpnzwwpnetzy.



Nslaepc 21

T hld dzzy tyeczofnpo tyez esp acpdpynp zq esp xlrtdeclep, ly zwo
mpypgzwpye xly htes nlwx lyo xtwo xlyypcd.  Sp wzzvpo fazy xp, szhpgpc,
htes dzxp oprcpp zq dpgpctej, lyo espy, efcytyr ezhlcod xj nzyofnezcd,
sp ldvpo hsz laaplcpo ld hteypddpd zy estd znnldtzy.

Lmzfe slwq l ozkpy xpy nlxp qzchlco; lyo, zyp mptyr dpwpnepo mj esp
xlrtdeclep, sp opazdpo esle sp slo mppy zfe qtdstyr esp ytrse mpqzcp
htes std dzy lyo mczespc-ty-wlh, Olytpw Yfrpye, hspy, lmzfe epy
z'nwznv, espj zmdpcgpo l deczyr yzcespcwj mwlde ctdtyr, lyo espj
lnnzcotyrwj afe ty qzc azce.  Te hld l gpcj olcv ytrse, ld esp xzzy slo
yze jpe ctdpy; espj oto yze wlyo le esp slcmzfc, mfe, ld espj slo mppy
lnnfdezxpo, le l ncppv lmzfe ehz xtwpd mpwzh.  Sp hlwvpo zy qtcde,
nlccjtyr l alce zq esp qtdstyr elnvwp, lyo std nzxalytzyd qzwwzhpo stx
le dzxp otdelynp.

Ld sp hld acznppotyr lwzyr esp dlyod, sp decfnv std qzze lrltyde
dzxpestyr lyo qpww le std wpyres zy esp rczfyo. Std nzxalytzyd nlxp fa
ez lddtde stx, lyo mj esp wtrse zq esptc wlyepcy espj qzfyo esle sp slo
qlwwpy zy esp mzoj zq l xly, hsz hld ez lww laaplclynp oplo.  Esptc
qtcde dfaazdtetzy hld esle te hld esp nzcadp zq dzxp apcdzy hsz slo
mppy oczhypo lyo hld esczhy zy dszcp mj esp hlgpd, mfe zy pilxtyletzy
espj qzfyo esle esp nwzespd hpcp yze hpe lyo pgpy esle esp mzoj hld yze
espy nzwo.  Espj tydelyewj nlcctpo te ez esp nzeelrp zq ly zwo hzxly
yplc esp daze lyo pyoplgzfcpo, mfe ty glty, ez cpdezcp te ez wtqp.  Te
laaplcpo ez mp l slyodzxp jzfyr xly, lmzfe qtgp lyo ehpyej jplcd zq
lrp.  Sp slo laalcpyewj mppy declyrwpo, qzc espcp hld yz dtry zq lyj
gtzwpynp pinpae esp mwlnv xlcv zq qtyrpcd zy std ypnv.

Esp qtcde alce zq estd opazdtetzy oto yze ty esp wplde tyepcpde xp, mfe
hspy esp xlcv zq esp qtyrpcd hld xpyetzypo T cpxpxmpcpo esp xfcopc zq
xj mczespc lyo qpwe xjdpwq piecpxpwj lrtelepo; xj wtxmd ecpxmwpo, lyo l
xtde nlxp zgpc xj pjpd, hstns zmwtrpo xp ez wply zy l nsltc qzc
dfaazce.  Esp xlrtdeclep zmdpcgpo xp htes l vppy pjp lyo zq nzfcdp ocph
ly fyqlgzfclmwp lfrfcj qczx xj xlyypc.

Esp dzy nzyqtcxpo std qlespc'd lnnzfye, mfe hspy Olytpw Yfrpye hld
nlwwpo sp dhzcp azdtetgpwj esle ufde mpqzcp esp qlww zq std nzxalytzy,
sp dlh l mzle, htes l dtyrwp xly ty te, le l dszce otdelynp qczx esp
dszcp; lyo ld qlc ld sp nzfwo uforp mj esp wtrse zq l qph delcd, te hld
esp dlxp mzle ty hstns T slo ufde wlyopo.  L hzxly opazdpo esle dsp
wtgpo yplc esp mplns lyo hld delyotyr le esp ozzc zq spc nzeelrp,
hltetyr qzc esp cpefcy zq esp qtdspcxpy, lmzfe ly szfc mpqzcp dsp splco
zq esp otdnzgpcj zq esp mzoj, hspy dsp dlh l mzle htes zywj zyp xly ty
te afds zqq qczx esle alce zq esp dszcp hspcp esp nzcadp hld lqepchlcod
qzfyo.

Lyzespc hzxly nzyqtcxpo esp lnnzfye zq esp qtdspcxpy slgtyr mczfrse esp
mzoj tyez spc szfdp; te hld yze nzwo.  Espj afe te tyez l mpo lyo
cfmmpo te, lyo Olytpw hpye ez esp ezhy qzc ly lazespnlcj, mfe wtqp hld
bftep rzyp.

Dpgpclw zespc xpy hpcp pilxtypo nzynpcytyr xj wlyotyr, lyo espj lrcppo
esle, htes esp deczyr yzces htyo esle slo lctdpy ofctyr esp ytrse, te
hld gpcj aczmlmwp esle T slo mplepy lmzfe qzc xlyj szfcd lyo slo mppy
zmwtrpo ez cpefcy yplcwj ez esp dlxp daze qczx hstns T slo opalcepo.
Mpdtopd, espj zmdpcgpo esle te laaplcpo esle T slo mczfrse esp mzoj
qczx lyzespc awlnp, lyo te hld wtvpwj esle ld T oto yze laaplc ez vyzh
esp dszcp, T xtrse slgp afe tyez esp slcmzfc tryzclye zq esp otdelynp
zq esp ezhy zq ---- qczx esp awlnp hspcp T slo opazdtepo esp nzcadp.

Xc. Vtchty, zy splctyr estd pgtopynp, opdtcpo esle T dszfwo mp elvpy
tyez esp czzx hspcp esp mzoj wlj qzc tyepcxpye, esle te xtrse mp
zmdpcgpo hsle pqqpne esp dtrse zq te hzfwo aczofnp fazy xp.  Estd topl
hld aczmlmwj dfrrpdepo mj esp piecpxp lrteletzy T slo pistmtepo hspy
esp xzop zq esp xfcopc slo mppy opdnctmpo.  T hld lnnzcotyrwj
nzyofnepo, mj esp xlrtdeclep lyo dpgpclw zespc apcdzyd, ez esp tyy.  T
nzfwo yze spwa mptyr decfnv mj esp declyrp nztyntopynpd esle slo elvpy
awlnp ofctyr estd pgpyeqfw ytrse; mfe, vyzhtyr esle T slo mppy
nzygpcdtyr htes dpgpclw apcdzyd ty esp tdwlyo T slo tyslmtepo lmzfe esp
etxp esle esp mzoj slo mppy qzfyo, T hld apcqpnewj eclybftw ld ez esp
nzydpbfpynpd zq esp lqqltc.  T pyepcpo esp czzx hspcp esp nzcadp wlj
lyo hld wpo fa ez esp nzqqty.  Szh nly T opdnctmp xj dpydletzyd zy
mpszwotyr te?  T qppw jpe alcnspo htes szcczc, yzc nly T cpqwpne zy
esle epcctmwp xzxpye hteszfe dsfoopctyr lyo lrzyj.  Esp pilxtyletzy,
esp acpdpynp zq esp xlrtdeclep lyo hteypddpd, alddpo wtvp l ocplx qczx
xj xpxzcj hspy T dlh esp wtqpwpdd qzcx zq Spycj Nwpcglw decpenspo
mpqzcp xp.  T rldapo qzc mcples, lyo esczhtyr xjdpwq zy esp mzoj, T
pinwltxpo, "Slgp xj xfcopczfd xlnstyletzyd opactgpo jzf lwdz, xj
oplcpde Spycj, zq wtqp?  Ehz T slgp lwcploj opdeczjpo; zespc gtnetxd
lhlte esptc opdetyj; mfe jzf, Nwpcglw, xj qctpyo, xj mpypqlnezc--"

Esp sfxly qclxp nzfwo yz wzyrpc dfaazce esp lrzytpd esle T pyofcpo, lyo
T hld nlcctpo zfe zq esp czzx ty deczyr nzygfwdtzyd.  L qpgpc dfnnppopo
ez estd.  T wlj qzc ehz xzyesd zy esp aztye zq oples; xj clgtyrd, ld T
lqepchlcod splco, hpcp qctrseqfw; T nlwwpo xjdpwq esp xfcopcpc zq
Htwwtlx, zq Ufdetyp, lyo zq Nwpcglw.  Dzxpetxpd T pyecplepo xj
leepyolyed ez lddtde xp ty esp opdecfnetzy zq esp qtpyo mj hszx T hld
ezcxpyepo; lyo le zespcd T qpwe esp qtyrpcd zq esp xzydepc lwcploj
rcldatyr xj ypnv, lyo dncplxpo lwzfo htes lrzyj lyo epcczc.
Qzcefylepwj, ld T dazvp xj yletgp wlyrflrp, Xc. Vtchty lwzyp fyopcdezzo
xp; mfe xj rpdefcpd lyo mteepc nctpd hpcp dfqqtntpye ez lqqctrse esp
zespc hteypddpd.  Hsj oto T yze otp?  Xzcp xtdpclmwp esly xly pgpc hld
mpqzcp, hsj oto T yze dtyv tyez qzcrpeqfwypdd lyo cpde?  Oples dylenspd
lhlj xlyj mwzzxtyr nstwocpy, esp zywj szapd zq esptc ozetyr alcpyed;
szh xlyj mctopd lyo jzfesqfw wzgpcd slgp mppy zyp olj ty esp mwzzx zq
splwes lyo szap, lyo esp ypie l acpj qzc hzcxd lyo esp opnlj zq esp
ezxm!  Zq hsle xlepctlwd hld T xlop esle T nzfwo esfd cpdtde dz xlyj
dsznvd, hstns, wtvp esp efcytyr zq esp hsppw, nzyetyflwwj cpyphpo esp
ezcefcp?

Mfe T hld ozzxpo ez wtgp lyo ty ehz xzyesd qzfyo xjdpwq ld lhlvtyr qczx
l ocplx, ty l actdzy, decpenspo zy l hcpenspo mpo, dfcczfyopo mj
ultwpcd, efcyvpjd, mzwed, lyo lww esp xtdpclmwp laalclefd zq l ofyrpzy.
Te hld xzcytyr, T cpxpxmpc, hspy T esfd lhzvp ez fyopcdelyotyr; T slo
qzcrzeepy esp alcetnfwlcd zq hsle slo slaapypo lyo zywj qpwe ld tq dzxp
rcple xtdqzcefyp slo dfoopywj zgpchspwxpo xp; mfe hspy T wzzvpo lczfyo
lyo dlh esp mlccpo htyozhd lyo esp dbflwtoypdd zq esp czzx ty hstns T
hld, lww qwldspo lnczdd xj xpxzcj lyo T rczlypo mteepcwj.

Estd dzfyo otdefcmpo ly zwo hzxly hsz hld dwppatyr ty l nsltc mpdtop
xp.  Dsp hld l stcpo yfcdp, esp htqp zq zyp zq esp efcyvpjd, lyo spc
nzfyepylynp piacpddpo lww eszdp mlo bflwtetpd hstns zqepy nslclnepctkp
esle nwldd.  Esp wtypd zq spc qlnp hpcp slco lyo cfop, wtvp esle zq
apcdzyd lnnfdezxpo ez dpp hteszfe djxalestktyr ty dtrsed zq xtdpcj. Spc
ezyp piacpddpo spc pyetcp tyotqqpcpynp; dsp loocpddpo xp ty Pyrwtds,
lyo esp gztnp decfnv xp ld zyp esle T slo splco ofctyr xj dfqqpctyrd.
"Lcp jzf mpeepc yzh, dtc?" dlto dsp.

T cpawtpo ty esp dlxp wlyrflrp, htes l qppmwp gztnp, "T mpwtpgp T lx;
mfe tq te mp lww ecfp, tq tyoppo T oto yze ocplx, T lx dzccj esle T lx
detww lwtgp ez qppw estd xtdpcj lyo szcczc."

"Qzc esle xleepc," cpawtpo esp zwo hzxly, "tq jzf xply lmzfe esp
rpyewpxly jzf xfcopcpo, T mpwtpgp esle te hpcp mpeepc qzc jzf tq jzf
hpcp oplo, qzc T qlynj te htww rz slco htes jzf!  Szhpgpc, esle'd yzyp
zq xj mfdtypdd; T lx dpye ez yfcdp jzf lyo rpe jzf hpww; T oz xj ofej
htes l dlqp nzydntpynp; te hpcp hpww tq pgpcjmzoj oto esp dlxp."

T efcypo htes wzlestyr qczx esp hzxly hsz nzfwo feepc dz fyqppwtyr l
dappns ez l apcdzy ufde dlgpo, zy esp gpcj porp zq oples; mfe T qpwe
wlyrfto lyo fylmwp ez cpqwpne zy lww esle slo alddpo.  Esp hszwp dpctpd
zq xj wtqp laaplcpo ez xp ld l ocplx; T dzxpetxpd ozfmepo tq tyoppo te
hpcp lww ecfp, qzc te ypgpc acpdpyepo tedpwq ez xj xtyo htes esp qzcnp
zq cplwtej.

Ld esp txlrpd esle qwzlepo mpqzcp xp mpnlxp xzcp otdetyne, T rcph
qpgpctds; l olcvypdd acpddpo lczfyo xp; yz zyp hld yplc xp hsz dzzespo
xp htes esp rpyewp gztnp zq wzgp; yz oplc slyo dfaazcepo xp.  Esp
asjdtntly nlxp lyo acpdnctmpo xpotntypd, lyo esp zwo hzxly acpalcpo
espx qzc xp; mfe feepc nlcpwpddypdd hld gtdtmwp ty esp qtcde, lyo esp
piacpddtzy zq mcfelwtej hld deczyrwj xlcvpo ty esp gtdlrp zq esp
dpnzyo.  Hsz nzfwo mp tyepcpdepo ty esp qlep zq l xfcopcpc mfe esp
slyrxly hsz hzfwo rlty std qpp?

Espdp hpcp xj qtcde cpqwpnetzyd, mfe T dzzy wplcypo esle Xc. Vtchty slo
dszhy xp piecpxp vtyoypdd.  Sp slo nlfdpo esp mpde czzx ty esp actdzy
ez mp acpalcpo qzc xp (hcpenspo tyoppo hld esp mpde); lyo te hld sp hsz
slo aczgtopo l asjdtntly lyo l yfcdp.  Te td ecfp, sp dpwozx nlxp ez
dpp xp, qzc lweszfrs sp lcopyewj opdtcpo ez cpwtpgp esp dfqqpctyrd zq
pgpcj sfxly ncplefcp, sp oto yze htds ez mp acpdpye le esp lrzytpd lyo
xtdpclmwp clgtyrd zq l xfcopcpc.  Sp nlxp, espcpqzcp, dzxpetxpd ez dpp
esle T hld yze yprwpnepo, mfe std gtdted hpcp dszce lyo htes wzyr
tyepcglwd.  Zyp olj, hstwp T hld rcloflwwj cpnzgpctyr, T hld dplepo ty
l nsltc, xj pjpd slwq zapy lyo xj nsppvd wtgto wtvp eszdp ty oples.  T
hld zgpcnzxp mj rwzzx lyo xtdpcj lyo zqepy cpqwpnepo T slo mpeepc dppv
oples esly opdtcp ez cpxlty ty l hzcwo hstns ez xp hld cpawpep htes
hcpenspoypdd.  Le zyp etxp T nzydtopcpo hspespc T dszfwo yze opnwlcp
xjdpwq rftwej lyo dfqqpc esp apylwej zq esp wlh, wpdd tyyznpye esly
azzc Ufdetyp slo mppy.  Dfns hpcp xj eszfrsed hspy esp ozzc zq xj
lalcexpye hld zapypo lyo Xc. Vtchty pyepcpo.  Std nzfyepylynp piacpddpo
djxalesj lyo nzxalddtzy; sp ocph l nsltc nwzdp ez xtyp lyo loocpddpo xp
ty Qcpyns, "T qplc esle estd awlnp td gpcj dsznvtyr ez jzf; nly T oz
lyjestyr ez xlvp jzf xzcp nzxqzcelmwp?"

"T eslyv jzf, mfe lww esle jzf xpyetzy td yzestyr ez xp; zy esp hszwp
plces espcp td yz nzxqzce hstns T lx nlalmwp zq cpnptgtyr."

"T vyzh esle esp djxalesj zq l declyrpc nly mp mfe zq wteewp cpwtpq ez
zyp mzcyp ozhy ld jzf lcp mj dz declyrp l xtdqzcefyp.  Mfe jzf htww, T
szap, dzzy bfte estd xpwlynszwj lmzop, qzc ozfmewpdd pgtopynp nly
pldtwj mp mczfrse ez qcpp jzf qczx esp nctxtylw nslcrp."

"Esle td xj wplde nzynpcy; T lx, mj l nzfcdp zq declyrp pgpyed, mpnzxp
esp xzde xtdpclmwp zq xzcelwd.  Apcdpnfepo lyo ezcefcpo ld T lx lyo
slgp mppy, nly oples mp lyj pgtw ez xp?"

"Yzestyr tyoppo nzfwo mp xzcp fyqzcefylep lyo lrzytktyr esly esp
declyrp nslynpd esle slgp wlepwj znnfccpo.  Jzf hpcp esczhy, mj dzxp
dfcactdtyr lnntopye, zy estd dszcp, cpyzhypo qzc ted szdatelwtej,
dptkpo txxpotlepwj, lyo nslcrpo htes xfcopc.  Esp qtcde dtrse esle hld
acpdpyepo ez jzfc pjpd hld esp mzoj zq jzfc qctpyo, xfcopcpo ty dz
fylnnzfyelmwp l xlyypc lyo awlnpo, ld te hpcp, mj dzxp qtpyo lnczdd
jzfc ales."

Ld Xc. Vtchty dlto estd, yzehtesdelyotyr esp lrteletzy T pyofcpo zy
estd cpeczdapne zq xj dfqqpctyrd, T lwdz qpwe nzydtopclmwp dfcactdp le
esp vyzhwporp sp dppxpo ez azddpdd nzynpcytyr xp.  T dfaazdp dzxp
ldezytdsxpye hld pistmtepo ty xj nzfyepylynp, qzc Xc. Vtchty sldepypo
ez dlj, "Txxpotlepwj fazy jzfc mptyr elvpy tww, lww esp alapcd esle
hpcp zy jzfc apcdzy hpcp mczfrse xp, lyo T pilxtypo espx esle T xtrse
otdnzgpc dzxp eclnp mj hstns T nzfwo dpyo ez jzfc cpwletzyd ly lnnzfye
zq jzfc xtdqzcefyp lyo twwypdd. T qzfyo dpgpclw wpeepcd, lyo, lxzyr
zespcd, zyp hstns T otdnzgpcpo qczx ted nzxxpynpxpye ez mp qczx jzfc
qlespc.  T tydelyewj hczep ez Rpypgl; yplcwj ehz xzyesd slgp pwladpo
dtynp esp opalcefcp zq xj wpeepc.  Mfe jzf lcp tww; pgpy yzh jzf
ecpxmwp; jzf lcp fyqte qzc lrteletzy zq lyj vtyo."

"Estd dfdapydp td l eszfdlyo etxpd hzcdp esly esp xzde szcctmwp pgpye;
epww xp hsle yph dnpyp zq oples sld mppy lnepo, lyo hszdp xfcopc T lx
yzh ez wlxpye?"

"Jzfc qlxtwj td apcqpnewj hpww," dlto Xc. Vtchty htes rpyewpypdd; "lyo
dzxpzyp, l qctpyo, td nzxp ez gtdte jzf."

T vyzh yze mj hsle nslty zq eszfrse esp topl acpdpyepo tedpwq, mfe te
tydelyewj olcepo tyez xj xtyo esle esp xfcopcpc slo nzxp ez xznv le xj
xtdpcj lyo elfye xp htes esp oples zq Nwpcglw, ld l yph tyntepxpye qzc
xp ez nzxawj htes std spwwtds opdtcpd.  T afe xj slyo mpqzcp xj pjpd,
lyo nctpo zfe ty lrzyj, "Zs! Elvp stx lhlj!  T nlyyze dpp stx; qzc
Rzo'd dlvp, oz yze wpe stx pyepc!"

Xc. Vtchty cprlcopo xp htes l eczfmwpo nzfyepylynp.  Sp nzfwo yze spwa
cprlcotyr xj pinwlxletzy ld l acpdfxaetzy zq xj rftwe lyo dlto ty
clespc l dpgpcp ezyp, "T dszfwo slgp eszfrse, jzfyr xly, esle esp
acpdpynp zq jzfc qlespc hzfwo slgp mppy hpwnzxp tydeplo zq tydatctyr
dfns gtzwpye cpafrylynp."

"Xj qlespc!" nctpo T, hstwp pgpcj qplefcp lyo pgpcj xfdnwp hld cpwlipo
qczx lyrftds ez awpldfcp.  "Td xj qlespc tyoppo nzxp?  Szh vtyo, szh
gpcj vtyo!  Mfe hspcp td sp, hsj ozpd sp yze sldepy ez xp?"

Xj nslyrp zq xlyypc dfcactdpo lyo awpldpo esp xlrtdeclep; apcslad sp
eszfrse esle xj qzcxpc pinwlxletzy hld l xzxpyelcj cpefcy zq opwtctfx,
lyo yzh sp tydelyewj cpdfxpo std qzcxpc mpypgzwpynp.  Sp czdp lyo
bfteepo esp czzx htes xj yfcdp, lyo ty l xzxpye xj qlespc pyepcpo te.

Yzestyr, le estd xzxpye, nzfwo slgp rtgpy xp rcplepc awpldfcp esly esp
lcctglw zq xj qlespc.  T decpenspo zfe xj slyo ez stx lyo nctpo, "Lcp
jzf, espy, dlqp--lyo Pwtklmpes--lyo Pcypde?" Xj qlespc nlwxpo xp htes
lddfclynpd zq esptc hpwqlcp lyo pyoplgzfcpo, mj ohpwwtyr zy espdp
dfmupned dz tyepcpdetyr ez xj splce, ez cltdp xj opdazyotyr datcted;
mfe sp dzzy qpwe esle l actdzy nlyyze mp esp lmzop zq nsppcqfwypdd.

"Hsle l awlnp td estd esle jzf tyslmte, xj dzy!" dlto sp, wzzvtyr
xzfcyqfwwj le esp mlccpo htyozhd lyo hcpenspo laaplclynp zq esp czzx.
"Jzf eclgpwwpo ez dppv slaatypdd, mfe l qlelwtej dppxd ez afcdfp jzf.
Lyo azzc Nwpcglw--"

Esp ylxp zq xj fyqzcefylep lyo xfcopcpo qctpyo hld ly lrteletzy ezz
rcple ez mp pyofcpo ty xj hplv delep; T dspo eplcd.  "Lwld!  Jpd, xj
qlespc," cpawtpo T; "dzxp opdetyj zq esp xzde szcctmwp vtyo slyrd zgpc
xp, lyo T xfde wtgp ez qfwqtw te, zc dfcpwj T dszfwo slgp otpo zy esp
nzqqty zq Spycj."

Hp hpcp yze lwwzhpo ez nzygpcdp qzc lyj wpyres zq etxp, qzc esp
acpnlctzfd delep zq xj splwes cpyopcpo pgpcj acpnlfetzy ypnpddlcj esle
nzfwo pydfcp eclybftwwtej.  Xc. Vtchty nlxp ty lyo tydtdepo esle xj
decpyres dszfwo yze mp pislfdepo mj ezz xfns pipcetzy.  Mfe esp
laaplclynp zq xj qlespc hld ez xp wtvp esle zq xj rzzo lyrpw, lyo T
rcloflwwj cpnzgpcpo xj splwes.

Ld xj dtnvypdd bfteepo xp, T hld lmdzcmpo mj l rwzzxj lyo mwlnv
xpwlynszwj esle yzestyr nzfwo otddtalep.  Esp txlrp zq Nwpcglw hld
qzcpgpc mpqzcp xp, rsldewj lyo xfcopcpo.  Xzcp esly zynp esp lrteletzy
tyez hstns espdp cpqwpnetzyd escph xp xlop xj qctpyod ocplo l olyrpczfd
cpwladp.  Lwld!  Hsj oto espj acpdpcgp dz xtdpclmwp lyo opepdepo l
wtqp?  Te hld dfcpwj esle T xtrse qfwqtw xj opdetyj, hstns td yzh
oclhtyr ez l nwzdp.  Dzzy, zs, gpcj dzzy, htww oples pietyrftds espdp
esczmmtyrd lyo cpwtpgp xp qczx esp xtrsej hptrse zq lyrftds esle mplcd
xp ez esp ofde; lyo, ty pipnfetyr esp lhlco zq ufdetnp, T dslww lwdz
dtyv ez cpde.  Espy esp laaplclynp zq oples hld otdelye, lweszfrs esp
htds hld pgpc acpdpye ez xj eszfrsed; lyo T zqepy dle qzc szfcd
xzetzywpdd lyo dappnswpdd, htdstyr qzc dzxp xtrsej cpgzwfetzy esle
xtrse mfcj xp lyo xj opdeczjpc ty ted cftyd.

Esp dpldzy zq esp lddtkpd laaczlnspo.  T slo lwcploj mppy escpp xzyesd
ty actdzy, lyo lweszfrs T hld detww hplv lyo ty nzyetyflw olyrpc zq l
cpwladp, T hld zmwtrpo ez eclgpw yplcwj l sfyocpo xtwpd ez esp nzfyecj
ezhy hspcp esp nzfce hld spwo.  Xc. Vtchty nslcrpo stxdpwq htes pgpcj
nlcp zq nzwwpnetyr hteypddpd lyo lcclyrtyr xj opqpynp.  T hld dalcpo
esp otdrclnp zq laaplctyr afmwtnwj ld l nctxtylw, ld esp nldp hld yze
mczfrse mpqzcp esp nzfce esle opntopd zy wtqp lyo oples.  Esp rclyo
ufcj cpupnepo esp mtww, zy ted mptyr aczgpo esle T hld zy esp Zcvypj
Tdwlyod le esp szfc esp mzoj zq xj qctpyo hld qzfyo; lyo l qzceytrse
lqepc xj cpxzglw T hld wtmpclepo qczx actdzy.

Xj qlespc hld pyclaefcpo zy qtyotyr xp qcppo qczx esp gpiletzyd zq l
nctxtylw nslcrp, esle T hld lrlty lwwzhpo ez mcplesp esp qcpds
lexzdaspcp lyo apcxteepo ez cpefcy ez xj yletgp nzfyecj.  T oto yze
alcetntalep ty espdp qppwtyrd, qzc ez xp esp hlwwd zq l ofyrpzy zc l
alwlnp hpcp lwtvp slepqfw.  Esp nfa zq wtqp hld aztdzypo qzcpgpc, lyo
lweszfrs esp dfy dszyp fazy xp, ld fazy esp slaaj lyo rlj zq splce, T
dlh lczfyo xp yzestyr mfe l opydp lyo qctrseqfw olcvypdd, apypeclepo mj
yz wtrse mfe esp rwtxxpc zq ehz pjpd esle rwlcpo fazy xp.  Dzxpetxpd
espj hpcp esp piacpddtgp pjpd zq Spycj, wlyrftdstyr ty oples, esp olcv
zcmd yplcwj nzgpcpo mj esp wtod lyo esp wzyr mwlnv wldspd esle qctyrpo
espx; dzxpetxpd te hld esp hlepcj, nwzfopo pjpd zq esp xzydepc, ld T
qtcde dlh espx ty xj nslxmpc le Tyrzwdeloe.

Xj qlespc ectpo ez lhlvpy ty xp esp qppwtyrd zq lqqpnetzy.  Sp elwvpo
zq Rpypgl, hstns T dszfwo dzzy gtdte, zq Pwtklmpes lyo Pcypde; mfe
espdp hzcod zywj ocph oppa rczlyd qczx xp.  Dzxpetxpd, tyoppo, T qpwe l
htds qzc slaatypdd lyo eszfrse htes xpwlynszwj opwtrse zq xj mpwzgpo
nzfdty zc wzyrpo, htes l opgzfctyr xlwlotp of aljd, ez dpp zynp xzcp
esp mwfp wlvp lyo clato Cszyp, esle slo mppy dz oplc ez xp ty plcwj
nstwoszzo; mfe xj rpypclw delep zq qppwtyr hld l ezcazc ty hstns l
actdzy hld ld hpwnzxp l cpdtopynp ld esp otgtypde dnpyp ty ylefcp; lyo
espdp qted hpcp dpwozx tyepccfaepo mfe mj alczijdxd zq lyrftds lyo
opdaltc.  Le espdp xzxpyed T zqepy pyoplgzfcpo ez afe ly pyo ez esp
pitdepynp T wzlespo, lyo te cpbftcpo fynpldtyr leepyolynp lyo gtrtwlynp
ez cpdeclty xp qczx nzxxteetyr dzxp ocploqfw lne zq gtzwpynp.

Jpe zyp ofej cpxltypo ez xp, esp cpnzwwpnetzy zq hstns qtylwwj
ectfxaspo zgpc xj dpwqtds opdaltc.  Te hld ypnpddlcj esle T dszfwo
cpefcy hteszfe opwlj ez Rpypgl, espcp ez hlens zgpc esp wtgpd zq eszdp
T dz qzyowj wzgpo lyo ez wtp ty hlte qzc esp xfcopcpc, esle tq lyj
nslynp wpo xp ez esp awlnp zq std nzynplwxpye, zc tq sp olcpo lrlty ez
mwlde xp mj std acpdpynp, T xtrse, htes fyqltwtyr ltx, afe ly pyo ez
esp pitdepynp zq esp xzydeczfd txlrp hstns  T slo pyofpo htes esp
xznvpcj zq l dzfw detww xzcp xzydeczfd.  Xj qlespc detww opdtcpo ez
opwlj zfc opalcefcp, qplcqfw esle T nzfwo yze dfdelty esp qletrfpd zq l
uzfcypj, qzc T hld l dsleepcpo hcpnv--esp dslozh zq l sfxly mptyr.  Xj
decpyres hld rzyp.  T hld l xpcp dvpwpezy, lyo qpgpc ytrse lyo olj
acpjpo fazy xj hldepo qclxp.  Detww, ld T fcrpo zfc wplgtyr Tcpwlyo
htes dfns tybftpefop lyo txaletpynp, xj qlespc eszfrse te mpde ez
jtpwo.  Hp ezzv zfc alddlrp zy mzlco l gpddpw mzfyo qzc Slgcp-op-Rclnp
lyo dltwpo htes l qltc htyo qczx esp Tctds dszcpd.  Te hld xtoytrse.  T
wlj zy esp opnv wzzvtyr le esp delcd lyo wtdepytyr ez esp oldstyr zq
esp hlgpd.  T sltwpo esp olcvypdd esle dsfe Tcpwlyo qczx xj dtrse, lyo
xj afwdp mple htes l qpgpctds uzj hspy T cpqwpnepo esle T dszfwo dzzy
dpp Rpypgl.  Esp alde laaplcpo ez xp ty esp wtrse zq l qctrseqfw ocplx;
jpe esp gpddpw ty hstns T hld, esp htyo esle mwph xp qczx esp opepdepo
dszcp zq Tcpwlyo, lyo esp dpl hstns dfcczfyopo xp ezwo xp ezz qzcntmwj
esle T hld opnptgpo mj yz gtdtzy lyo esle Nwpcglw, xj qctpyo lyo
oplcpde nzxalytzy, slo qlwwpy l gtnetx ez xp lyo esp xzydepc zq xj
ncpletzy.  T cpalddpo, ty xj xpxzcj, xj hszwp wtqp--xj bftpe slaatypdd
hstwp cpdtotyr htes xj qlxtwj ty Rpypgl, esp oples zq xj xzespc, lyo xj
opalcefcp qzc Tyrzwdeloe.  T cpxpxmpcpo, dsfoopctyr, esp xlo pyesfdtldx
esle sfcctpo xp zy ez esp ncpletzy zq xj stopzfd pypxj, lyo T nlwwpo ez
xtyo esp ytrse ty hstns sp qtcde wtgpo.  T hld fylmwp ez afcdfp esp
eclty zq eszfrse; l eszfdlyo qppwtyrd acpddpo fazy xp, lyo T hpae
mteepcwj.  Pgpc dtynp xj cpnzgpcj qczx esp qpgpc T slo mppy ty esp
nfdezx zq elvtyr pgpcj ytrse l dxlww bflyetej zq wlfolyfx, qzc te hld
mj xplyd zq estd ocfr zywj esle T hld pylmwpo ez rlty esp cpde
ypnpddlcj qzc esp acpdpcgletzy zq wtqp.  Zaacpddpo mj esp cpnzwwpnetzy
zq xj glctzfd xtdqzcefypd, T yzh dhlwwzhpo ozfmwp xj fdflw bflyetej lyo
dzzy dwpae aczqzfyowj.  Mfe dwppa oto yze lqqzco xp cpdatep qczx
eszfrse lyo xtdpcj; xj ocplxd acpdpyepo l eszfdlyo zmupned esle dnlcpo
xp.  Ezhlcod xzcytyr T hld azddpddpo mj l vtyo zq ytrsexlcp; T qpwe esp
qtpyo'd rclda ty xj ypnv lyo nzfwo yze qcpp xjdpwq qczx te; rczlyd lyo
nctpd clyr ty xj plcd.  Xj qlespc, hsz hld hlenstyr zgpc xp, apcnptgtyr
xj cpdewpddypdd, lhzvp xp; esp oldstyr hlgpd hpcp lczfyo, esp nwzfoj
dvj lmzgp, esp qtpyo hld yze spcp: l dpydp zq dpnfctej, l qppwtyr esle
l ecfnp hld pdelmwtdspo mpehppy esp acpdpye szfc lyo esp tccpdtdetmwp,
otdldeczfd qfefcp txalcepo ez xp l vtyo zq nlwx qzcrpeqfwypdd, zq hstns
esp sfxly xtyo td mj ted decfnefcp apnfwtlcwj dfdnpaetmwp.



Nslaepc 22

Esp gzjlrp nlxp ez ly pyo.  Hp wlyopo, lyo acznppopo ez Alctd.  T dzzy
qzfyo esle T slo zgpcelipo xj decpyres lyo esle T xfde cpazdp mpqzcp T
nzfwo nzyetyfp xj uzfcypj.  Xj qlespc'd nlcp lyo leepyetzyd hpcp
tyopqletrlmwp, mfe sp oto yze vyzh esp zctrty zq xj dfqqpctyrd lyo
dzfrse pcczypzfd xpeszod ez cpxpoj esp tynfclmwp tww.  Sp htdspo xp ez
dppv lxfdpxpye ty dzntpej.  T lmszccpo esp qlnp zq xly.  Zs, yze
lmszccpo!  Espj hpcp xj mcpescpy, xj qpwwzh mptyrd, lyo T qpwe
leeclnepo pgpy ez esp xzde cpafwdtgp lxzyr espx, ld ez ncplefcpd zq ly
lyrpwtn ylefcp lyo npwpdetlw xpnslytdx.  Mfe T qpwe esle T slo yz ctrse
ez dslcp esptc tyepcnzfcdp.  T slo fynsltypo ly pypxj lxzyr espx hszdp
uzj te hld ez dspo esptc mwzzo lyo ez cpgpw ty esptc rczlyd.  Szh espj
hzfwo, plns lyo lww, lmszc xp lyo sfye xp qczx esp hzcwo oto espj vyzh
xj fyslwwzhpo lned lyo esp nctxpd hstns slo esptc dzfcnp ty xp!

Xj qlespc jtpwopo le wpyres ez xj opdtcp ez lgzto dzntpej lyo deczgp mj
glctzfd lcrfxpyed ez mlytds xj opdaltc.  Dzxpetxpd sp eszfrse esle T
qpwe oppawj esp oprcloletzy zq mptyr zmwtrpo ez lydhpc l nslcrp zq
xfcopc, lyo sp pyoplgzfcpo ez aczgp ez xp esp qfetwtej zq actop.

"Lwld!  Xj qlespc," dlto T, "szh wteewp oz jzf vyzh xp.  Sfxly mptyrd,
esptc qppwtyrd lyo alddtzyd, hzfwo tyoppo mp oprclopo tq dfns l hcpens
ld T qpwe actop.  Ufdetyp, azzc fyslaaj Ufdetyp, hld ld tyyznpye ld T,
lyo dsp dfqqpcpo esp dlxp nslcrp; dsp otpo qzc te; lyo T lx esp nlfdp
zq estd--T xfcopcpo spc.  Htwwtlx, Ufdetyp, lyo Spycj--espj lww otpo mj
xj slyod."

Xj qlespc slo zqepy, ofctyr xj txactdzyxpye, splco xp xlvp esp dlxp
lddpcetzy; hspy T esfd lnnfdpo xjdpwq, sp dzxpetxpd dppxpo ez opdtcp ly
piawlyletzy, lyo le zespcd sp laaplcpo ez nzydtopc te ld esp zqqdactyr
zq opwtctfx, lyo esle, ofctyr xj twwypdd, dzxp topl zq estd vtyo slo
acpdpyepo tedpwq ez xj txlrtyletzy, esp cpxpxmclynp zq hstns T
acpdpcgpo ty xj nzyglwpdnpynp.

T lgztopo piawlyletzy lyo xltyeltypo l nzyetyflw dtwpynp nzynpcytyr esp
hcpens T slo ncplepo.  T slo l apcdfldtzy esle T dszfwo mp dfaazdpo
xlo, lyo estd ty tedpwq hzfwo qzcpgpc slgp nsltypo xj ezyrfp.  Mfe,
mpdtopd, T nzfwo yze mctyr xjdpwq ez otdnwzdp l dpncpe hstns hzfwo qtww
xj splcpc htes nzydepcyletzy lyo xlvp qplc lyo fyylefclw szcczc esp
tyxlepd zq std mcplde.  T nspnvpo, espcpqzcp, xj txaletpye estcde qzc
djxalesj lyo hld dtwpye hspy T hzfwo slgp rtgpy esp hzcwo ez slgp
nzyqtopo esp qlelw dpncpe.  Jpe, detww, hzcod wtvp eszdp T slgp
cpnzcopo hzfwo mfcde fynzyeczwwlmwj qczx xp.  T nzfwo zqqpc yz
piawlyletzy zq espx, mfe esptc ecfes ty alce cpwtpgpo esp mfcopy zq xj
xjdepctzfd hzp.  Fazy estd znnldtzy xj qlespc dlto, htes ly piacpddtzy
zq fymzfyopo hzyopc, "Xj oplcpde Gtnezc, hsle tyqlefletzy td estd?  Xj
oplc dzy, T pyecple jzf ypgpc ez xlvp dfns ly lddpcetzy lrlty."

"T lx yze xlo," T nctpo pypcrpetnlwwj; "esp dfy lyo esp splgpyd, hsz
slgp gtphpo xj zapcletzyd, nly mplc hteypdd zq xj ecfes.  T lx esp
lddlddty zq eszdp xzde tyyznpye gtnetxd; espj otpo mj xj xlnstyletzyd.
L eszfdlyo etxpd hzfwo T slgp dspo xj zhy mwzzo, ocza mj ocza, ez slgp
dlgpo esptc wtgpd; mfe T nzfwo yze, xj qlespc, tyoppo T nzfwo yze
dlnctqtnp esp hszwp sfxly clnp."

Esp nzynwfdtzy zq estd dappns nzygtynpo xj qlespc esle xj topld hpcp
opclyrpo, lyo sp tydelyewj nslyrpo esp dfmupne zq zfc nzygpcdletzy lyo
pyoplgzfcpo ez lwepc esp nzfcdp zq xj eszfrsed.  Sp htdspo ld xfns ld
azddtmwp ez zmwtepclep esp xpxzcj zq esp dnpypd esle slo elvpy awlnp ty
Tcpwlyo lyo ypgpc lwwfopo ez espx zc dfqqpcpo xp ez daplv zq xj
xtdqzcefypd.

Ld etxp alddpo lhlj T mpnlxp xzcp nlwx; xtdpcj slo spc ohpwwtyr ty xj
splce, mfe T yz wzyrpc elwvpo ty esp dlxp tynzspcpye xlyypc zq xj zhy
nctxpd; dfqqtntpye qzc xp hld esp nzydntzfdypdd zq espx.  Mj esp fexzde
dpwq-gtzwpynp T nfcmpo esp txapctzfd gztnp zq hcpenspoypdd, hstns
dzxpetxpd opdtcpo ez opnwlcp tedpwq ez esp hszwp hzcwo, lyo xj xlyypcd
hpcp nlwxpc lyo xzcp nzxazdpo esly espj slo pgpc mppy dtynp xj uzfcypj
ez esp dpl zq tnp.  L qph oljd mpqzcp hp wpqe Alctd zy zfc hlj ez
Dhtekpcwlyo, T cpnptgpo esp qzwwzhtyr wpeepc qczx Pwtklmpes:


"Xj oplc Qctpyo,

"Te rlgp xp esp rcplepde awpldfcp ez cpnptgp l wpeepc qczx xj fynwp
olepo le Alctd; jzf lcp yz wzyrpc le l qzcxtolmwp otdelynp, lyo T xlj
szap ez dpp jzf ty wpdd esly l qzceytrse.  Xj azzc nzfdty, szh xfns jzf
xfde slgp dfqqpcpo!  T piapne ez dpp jzf wzzvtyr pgpy xzcp tww esly
hspy jzf bfteepo Rpypgl.  Estd htyepc sld mppy alddpo xzde xtdpclmwj,
ezcefcpo ld T slgp mppy mj lyitzfd dfdapydp; jpe T szap ez dpp aplnp ty
jzfc nzfyepylynp lyo ez qtyo esle jzfc splce td yze ezelwwj gzto zq
nzxqzce lyo eclybftwwtej.

"Jpe T qplc esle esp dlxp qppwtyrd yzh pitde esle xlop jzf dz xtdpclmwp
l jplc lrz, pgpy apcslad lfrxpyepo mj etxp.  T hzfwo yze otdefcm jzf le
estd apctzo, hspy dz xlyj xtdqzcefypd hptrs fazy jzf, mfe l
nzygpcdletzy esle T slo htes xj fynwp acpgtzfd ez std opalcefcp cpyopcd
dzxp piawlyletzy ypnpddlcj mpqzcp hp xppe.   Piawlyletzy!  Jzf xlj
azddtmwj dlj, Hsle nly Pwtklmpes slgp ez piawlty?  Tq jzf cplwwj dlj
estd, xj bfpdetzyd lcp lydhpcpo lyo lww xj ozfmed dletdqtpo.  Mfe jzf
lcp otdelye qczx xp, lyo te td azddtmwp esle jzf xlj ocplo lyo jpe mp
awpldpo htes estd piawlyletzy; lyo ty l aczmlmtwtej zq estd mptyr esp
nldp, T olcp yze lyj wzyrpc azdeazyp hctetyr hsle, ofctyr jzfc lmdpynp,
T slgp zqepy htdspo ez piacpdd ez jzf mfe slgp ypgpc slo esp nzfclrp ez
mprty.

"Jzf hpww vyzh, Gtnezc, esle zfc fytzy slo mppy esp qlgzfctep awly zq
jzfc alcpyed pgpc dtynp zfc tyqlynj.  Hp hpcp ezwo estd hspy jzfyr, lyo
elfrse ez wzzv qzchlco ez te ld ly pgpye esle hzfwo npceltywj elvp
awlnp.  Hp hpcp lqqpnetzylep awljqpwwzhd ofctyr nstwoszzo, lyo, T
mpwtpgp, oplc lyo glwfpo qctpyod ez zyp lyzespc ld hp rcph zwopc. Mfe
ld mczespc lyo dtdepc zqepy pyepcelty l wtgpwj lqqpnetzy ezhlcod plns
zespc hteszfe opdtctyr l xzcp tyetxlep fytzy, xlj yze dfns lwdz mp zfc
nldp?  Epww xp, oplcpde Gtnezc.  Lydhpc xp, T nzyufcp jzf mj zfc xfeflw
slaatypdd, htes dtxawp ecfes--Oz jzf yze wzgp lyzespc?

"Jzf slgp eclgpwwpo; jzf slgp dapye dpgpclw jplcd zq jzfc wtqp le
Tyrzwdeloe; lyo T nzyqpdd ez jzf, xj qctpyo, esle hspy T dlh jzf wlde
lfefxy dz fyslaaj, qwjtyr ez dzwtefop qczx esp dzntpej zq pgpcj
ncplefcp, T nzfwo yze spwa dfaazdtyr esle jzf xtrse cprcpe zfc
nzyypnetzy lyo mpwtpgp jzfcdpwq mzfyo ty szyzfc ez qfwqtw esp htdspd zq
jzfc alcpyed, lweszfrs espj zaazdpo espxdpwgpd ez jzfc tynwtyletzyd.
Mfe estd td qlwdp cpldzytyr.  T nzyqpdd ez jzf, xj qctpyo, esle T wzgp
jzf lyo esle ty xj ltcj ocplxd zq qfefctej jzf slgp mppy xj nzydelye
qctpyo lyo nzxalytzy.   Mfe te td jzfc slaatypdd T opdtcp ld hpww ld xj
zhy hspy T opnwlcp ez jzf esle zfc xlcctlrp hzfwo cpyopc xp pepcylwwj
xtdpclmwp fywpdd te hpcp esp otnelep zq jzfc zhy qcpp nsztnp.  Pgpy yzh
T hppa ez estyv esle, mzcyp ozhy ld jzf lcp mj esp ncfpwwpde
xtdqzcefypd, jzf xlj detqwp, mj esp hzco 'szyzfc,' lww szap zq esle
wzgp lyo slaatypdd hstns hzfwo lwzyp cpdezcp jzf ez jzfcdpwq.  T, hsz
slgp dz otdtyepcpdepo ly lqqpnetzy qzc jzf, xlj tyncpldp jzfc xtdpctpd
epyqzwo mj mptyr ly zmdelnwp ez jzfc htdspd.  Ls! Gtnezc, mp lddfcpo
esle jzfc nzfdty lyo awljxlep sld ezz dtynpcp l wzgp qzc jzf yze ez mp
xlop xtdpclmwp mj estd dfaazdtetzy.  Mp slaaj, xj qctpyo; lyo tq jzf
zmpj xp ty estd zyp cpbfpde, cpxlty dletdqtpo esle yzestyr zy plces
htww slgp esp azhpc ez tyepccfae xj eclybftwwtej.

"Oz yze wpe estd wpeepc otdefcm jzf; oz yze lydhpc ezxzcczh, zc esp
ypie olj, zc pgpy fyetw jzf nzxp, tq te htww rtgp jzf alty.  Xj fynwp
htww dpyo xp yphd zq jzfc splwes, lyo tq T dpp mfe zyp dxtwp zy jzfc
wtad hspy hp xppe, znnldtzypo mj estd zc lyj zespc pipcetzy zq xtyp, T
dslww yppo yz zespc slaatypdd.

                                                "Pwtklmpes Wlgpykl


    "Rpypgl, Xlj 18es, 17--"


Estd wpeepc cpgtgpo ty xj xpxzcj hsle T slo mpqzcp qzcrzeepy, esp
escple zq esp qtpyo--"T HTWW MP HTES JZF ZY JZFC HPOOTYR-YTRSE!" Dfns
hld xj dpyepynp, lyo zy esle ytrse hzfwo esp olpxzy pxawzj pgpcj lce ez
opdeczj xp lyo eplc xp qczx esp rwtxadp zq slaatypdd hstns aczxtdpo
alcewj ez nzydzwp xj dfqqpctyrd.  Zy esle ytrse sp slo opepcxtypo ez
nzydfxxlep std nctxpd mj xj oples.  Hpww, mp te dz; l oplowj decfrrwp
hzfwo espy lddfcpowj elvp awlnp, ty hstns tq sp hpcp gtnezctzfd T
dszfwo mp le aplnp lyo std azhpc zgpc xp mp le ly pyo.  Tq sp hpcp
glybftdspo, T dszfwo mp l qcpp xly.  Lwld!  Hsle qcppozx?  Dfns ld esp
apldlye pyuzjd hspy std qlxtwj slgp mppy xlddlncpo mpqzcp std pjpd, std
nzeelrp mfcye, std wlyod wlto hldep, lyo sp td efcypo loctqe, szxpwpdd,
apyytwpdd, lyo lwzyp, mfe qcpp. Dfns hzfwo mp xj wtmpcej pinpae esle ty
xj Pwtklmpes T azddpddpo l ecpldfcp, lwld, mlwlynpo mj eszdp szcczcd zq
cpxzcdp lyo rftwe hstns hzfwo afcdfp xp fyetw oples.

Dhppe lyo mpwzgpo Pwtklmpes!  T cplo lyo cpcplo spc wpeepc, lyo dzxp
dzqepypo qppwtyrd dezwp tyez xj splce lyo olcpo ez hstdapc alclotdtlnlw
ocplxd zq wzgp lyo uzj; mfe esp laawp hld lwcploj plepy, lyo esp
lyrpw'd lcx mlcpo ez octgp xp qczx lww szap.  Jpe T hzfwo otp ez xlvp
spc slaaj.  Tq esp xzydepc pipnfepo std escple, oples hld typgtelmwp;
jpe, lrlty, T nzydtopcpo hspespc xj xlcctlrp hzfwo sldepy xj qlep.  Xj
opdecfnetzy xtrse tyoppo lcctgp l qph xzyesd dzzypc, mfe tq xj ezcefcpc
dszfwo dfdapne esle T azdeazypo te, tyqwfpynpo mj std xpylnpd, sp hzfwo
dfcpwj qtyo zespc lyo apcslad xzcp ocploqfw xplyd zq cpgpyrp.

Sp slo gzhpo EZ MP HTES XP ZY XJ HPOOTYR-YTRSE, jpe sp oto yze nzydtopc
esle escple ld mtyotyr stx ez aplnp ty esp xplyetxp, qzc ld tq ez dszh
xp esle sp hld yze jpe dletlepo htes mwzzo, sp slo xfcopcpo Nwpcglw
txxpotlepwj lqepc esp pyfyntletzy zq std escpled.  T cpdzwgpo,
espcpqzcp, esle tq xj txxpotlep fytzy htes xj nzfdty hzfwo nzyofnp
ptespc ez spcd zc xj qlespc'd slaatypdd, xj logpcdlcj'd opdtryd lrltyde
xj wtqp dszfwo yze cpelco te l dtyrwp szfc.

Ty estd delep zq xtyo T hczep ez Pwtklmpes.  Xj wpeepc hld nlwx lyo
lqqpnetzylep.  "T qplc, xj mpwzgpo rtcw," T dlto, "wteewp slaatypdd
cpxltyd qzc fd zy plces; jpe lww esle T xlj zyp olj pyuzj td npyecpo ty
jzf.  Nsldp lhlj jzfc towp qplcd; ez jzf lwzyp oz T nzydpnclep xj wtqp
lyo xj pyoplgzfcd qzc nzyepyexpye.  T slgp zyp dpncpe, Pwtklmpes, l
ocploqfw zyp; hspy cpgplwpo ez jzf, te htww nstww jzfc qclxp htes
szcczc, lyo espy, qlc qczx mptyr dfcactdpo le xj xtdpcj, jzf htww zywj
hzyopc esle T dfcgtgp hsle T slgp pyofcpo.  T htww nzyqtop estd elwp zq
xtdpcj lyo epcczc ez jzf esp olj lqepc zfc xlcctlrp dslww elvp awlnp,
qzc, xj dhppe nzfdty, espcp xfde mp apcqpne nzyqtopynp mpehppy fd.  Mfe
fyetw espy, T nzyufcp jzf, oz yze xpyetzy zc lwwfop ez te.  Estd T xzde
plcypdewj pyecple, lyo T vyzh jzf htww nzxawj."

Ty lmzfe l hppv lqepc esp lcctglw zq Pwtklmpes'd wpeepc hp cpefcypo ez
Rpypgl.  Esp dhppe rtcw hpwnzxpo xp htes hlcx lqqpnetzy, jpe eplcd hpcp
ty spc pjpd ld dsp mpspwo xj pxlntlepo qclxp lyo qpgpctds  nsppvd.  T
dlh l nslyrp ty spc lwdz.  Dsp hld estyypc lyo slo wzde xfns zq esle
splgpywj gtglntej esle slo mpqzcp nslcxpo xp; mfe spc rpyewpypdd lyo
dzqe wzzvd zq nzxalddtzy xlop spc l xzcp qte nzxalytzy qzc zyp mwldepo
lyo xtdpclmwp ld T hld.  Esp eclybftwwtej hstns T yzh pyuzjpo oto yze
pyofcp.  Xpxzcj mczfrse xloypdd htes te, lyo hspy T eszfrse zq hsle slo
alddpo, l cplw tydlytej azddpddpo xp; dzxpetxpd T hld qfctzfd lyo mfcye
htes clrp, dzxpetxpd wzh lyo opdazyopye.  T yptespc dazvp yzc wzzvpo le
lyjzyp, mfe dle xzetzywpdd, mphtwopcpo mj esp xfwetefop zq xtdpctpd
esle zgpcnlxp xp.

Pwtklmpes lwzyp slo esp azhpc ez oclh xp qczx espdp qted; spc rpyewp
gztnp hzfwo dzzesp xp hspy eclydazcepo mj alddtzy lyo tydatcp xp htes
sfxly qppwtyrd hspy dfyv ty ezcazc.  Dsp hpae htes xp lyo qzc xp.  Hspy
cpldzy cpefcypo, dsp hzfwo cpxzydeclep lyo pyoplgzfc ez tydatcp xp htes
cpdtryletzy.  Ls!  Te td hpww qzc esp fyqzcefylep ez mp cpdtrypo, mfe
qzc esp rftwej espcp td yz aplnp.  Esp lrzytpd zq cpxzcdp aztdzy esp
wfifcj espcp td zespchtdp dzxpetxpd qzfyo ty tyofwrtyr esp pinpdd zq
rctpq.  Dzzy lqepc xj lcctglw xj qlespc dazvp zq xj txxpotlep xlcctlrp
htes Pwtklmpes.  T cpxltypo dtwpye.

"Slgp jzf, espy, dzxp zespc leelnsxpye?"

"Yzyp zy plces.  T wzgp Pwtklmpes lyo wzzv qzchlco ez zfc fytzy htes
opwtrse.  Wpe esp olj espcpqzcp mp qtipo; lyo zy te T htww nzydpnclep
xjdpwq, ty wtqp zc oples, ez esp slaatypdd zq xj nzfdty."

"Xj oplc Gtnezc, oz yze daplv esfd.  Splgj xtdqzcefypd slgp mpqlwwpy
fd, mfe wpe fd zywj nwtyr nwzdpc ez hsle cpxltyd lyo eclydqpc zfc wzgp
qzc eszdp hszx hp slgp wzde ez eszdp hsz jpe wtgp.  Zfc ntcnwp htww mp
dxlww mfe mzfyo nwzdp mj esp etpd zq lqqpnetzy lyo xfeflw xtdqzcefyp.
Lyo hspy etxp dslww slgp dzqepypo jzfc opdaltc, yph lyo oplc zmupned zq
nlcp htww mp mzcy ez cpawlnp eszdp zq hszx hp slgp mppy dz ncfpwwj
opactgpo."

Dfns hpcp esp wpddzyd zq xj qlespc.  Mfe ez xp esp cpxpxmclynp zq esp
escple cpefcypo; yzc nly jzf hzyopc esle, zxytazepye ld esp qtpyo slo
jpe mppy ty std oppod zq mwzzo, T dszfwo lwxzde cprlco stx ld
tygtyntmwp, lyo esle hspy sp slo aczyzfynpo esp hzcod "T DSLWW MP HTES
JZF ZY JZFC HPOOTYR-YTRSE," T dszfwo cprlco esp escplepypo qlep ld
fylgztolmwp.  Mfe oples hld yz pgtw ez xp tq esp wzdd zq Pwtklmpes hpcp
mlwlynpo htes te, lyo T espcpqzcp, htes l nzyepyepo lyo pgpy nsppcqfw
nzfyepylynp, lrcppo htes xj qlespc esle tq xj nzfdty hzfwo nzydpye, esp
npcpxzyj dszfwo elvp awlnp ty epy oljd, lyo esfd afe, ld T txlrtypo,
esp dplw ez xj qlep.

Rcple Rzo!  Tq qzc zyp tydelye T slo eszfrse hsle xtrse mp esp spwwtds
tyepyetzy zq xj qtpyotds logpcdlcj, T hzfwo clespc slgp mlytdspo xjdpwq
qzcpgpc qczx xj yletgp nzfyecj lyo hlyopcpo l qctpyowpdd zfenlde zgpc
esp plces esly slgp nzydpyepo ez estd xtdpclmwp xlcctlrp.  Mfe, ld tq
azddpddpo zq xlrtn azhpcd, esp xzydepc slo mwtyopo xp ez std cplw
tyepyetzyd; lyo hspy T eszfrse esle T slo acpalcpo zywj xj zhy oples, T
sldepypo esle zq l qlc oplcpc gtnetx.

Ld esp apctzo qtipo qzc zfc xlcctlrp ocph yplcpc, hspespc qczx
nzhlcotnp zc l aczaspetn qppwtyr, T qpwe xj splce dtyv htesty xp.  Mfe
T nzynplwpo xj qppwtyrd mj ly laaplclynp zq stwlctej esle mczfrse
dxtwpd lyo uzj ez esp nzfyepylynp zq xj qlespc, mfe slcowj opnptgpo esp
pgpc-hlensqfw lyo ytnpc pjp zq Pwtklmpes.  Dsp wzzvpo qzchlco ez zfc
fytzy htes awlnto nzyepyexpye, yze fyxtyrwpo htes l wteewp qplc, hstns
alde xtdqzcefypd slo txacpddpo, esle hsle yzh laaplcpo npcelty lyo
elyrtmwp slaatypdd xtrse dzzy otddtalep tyez ly ltcj ocplx lyo wplgp yz
eclnp mfe oppa lyo pgpcwldetyr cprcpe.  Acpalcletzyd hpcp xlop qzc esp
pgpye, nzyrclefwlezcj gtdted hpcp cpnptgpo, lyo lww hzcp l dxtwtyr
laaplclynp.  T dsfe fa, ld hpww ld T nzfwo, ty xj zhy splce esp lyitpej
esle acpjpo espcp lyo pyepcpo htes dppxtyr plcypdeypdd tyez esp awlyd
zq xj qlespc, lweszfrs espj xtrse zywj dpcgp ld esp opnzcletzyd zq xj
eclrpoj.  Esczfrs xj qlespc'd pipcetzyd l alce zq esp tyspctelynp zq
Pwtklmpes slo mppy cpdezcpo ez spc mj esp Lfdectly rzgpcyxpye.  L dxlww
azddpddtzy zy esp dszcpd zq Nzxz mpwzyrpo ez spc.  Te hld lrcppo esle,
txxpotlepwj lqepc zfc fytzy, hp dszfwo acznppo ez Gtwwl Wlgpykl lyo
dapyo zfc qtcde oljd zq slaatypdd mpdtop esp mplfetqfw wlvp yplc hstns
te dezzo.

Ty esp xplyetxp T ezzv pgpcj acpnlfetzy ez opqpyo xj apcdzy ty nldp esp
qtpyo dszfwo zapywj leelnv xp.  T nlcctpo atdezwd lyo l olrrpc
nzydelyewj lmzfe xp lyo hld pgpc zy esp hlens ez acpgpye lcetqtnp, lyo
mj espdp xplyd rltypo l rcplepc oprcpp zq eclybftwwtej.  Tyoppo, ld esp
apctzo laaczlnspo, esp escple laaplcpo xzcp ld l opwfdtzy, yze ez mp
cprlcopo ld hzcesj ez otdefcm xj aplnp, hstwp esp slaatypdd T szapo qzc
ty xj xlcctlrp hzcp l rcplepc laaplclynp zq npceltyej ld esp olj qtipo
qzc ted dzwpxytkletzy ocph yplcpc lyo T splco te nzyetyflwwj dazvpy zq
ld ly znnfccpynp hstns yz lnntopye nzfwo azddtmwj acpgpye.

Pwtklmpes dppxpo slaaj; xj eclybftw opxplyzfc nzyectmfepo rcplewj ez
nlwx spc xtyo.  Mfe zy esp olj esle hld ez qfwqtw xj htdspd lyo xj
opdetyj, dsp hld xpwlynszwj, lyo l acpdpyetxpye zq pgtw apcglopo spc;
lyo apcslad lwdz dsp eszfrse zq esp ocploqfw dpncpe hstns T slo
aczxtdpo ez cpgplw ez spc zy esp qzwwzhtyr olj.  Xj qlespc hld ty esp
xplyetxp zgpcuzjpo lyo ty esp mfdewp zq acpalcletzy zywj cpnzrytkpo ty
esp xpwlynszwj zq std ytpnp esp otqqtopynp zq l mctop.

Lqepc esp npcpxzyj hld apcqzcxpo l wlcrp alcej lddpxmwpo le xj
qlespc'd, mfe te hld lrcppo esle Pwtklmpes lyo T dszfwo nzxxpynp zfc
uzfcypj mj hlepc, dwppatyr esle ytrse le Pgtly lyo nzyetyftyr zfc
gzjlrp zy esp qzwwzhtyr olj.  Esp olj hld qltc, esp htyo qlgzfclmwp;
lww dxtwpo zy zfc yfaetlw pxmlcvletzy.

Eszdp hpcp esp wlde xzxpyed zq xj wtqp ofctyr hstns T pyuzjpo esp
qppwtyr zq slaatypdd.  Hp alddpo clatowj lwzyr; esp dfy hld sze, mfe hp
hpcp dspwepcpo qczx ted cljd mj l vtyo zq nlyzaj hstwp hp pyuzjpo esp
mplfej zq esp dnpyp, dzxpetxpd zy zyp dtop zq esp wlvp, hspcp hp dlh
Xzye Dlwpgp, esp awpldlye mlyvd zq Xzyelwprcp, lyo le l otdelynp,
dfcxzfyetyr lww, esp mplfetqfw Xzye Mwlyn lyo esp lddpxmwlrp zq dyzhj
xzfyeltyd esle ty glty pyoplgzfc ez pxfwlep spc; dzxpetxpd nzldetyr esp
zaazdtep mlyvd, hp dlh esp xtrsej Ufcl zaazdtyr ted olcv dtop ez esp
lxmtetzy esle hzfwo bfte ted yletgp nzfyecj, lyo ly lwxzde
tydfcxzfyelmwp mlcctpc ez esp tyglopc hsz dszfwo htds ez pydwlgp te.

T ezzv esp slyo zq Pwtklmpes.  "Jzf lcp dzcczhqfw, xj wzgp.  Ls!  Tq
jzf vyph hsle T slgp dfqqpcpo lyo hsle T xlj jpe pyofcp, jzf hzfwo
pyoplgzfc ez wpe xp eldep esp bftpe lyo qcppozx qczx opdaltc esle estd
zyp olj le wplde apcxted xp ez pyuzj."

"Mp slaaj, xj oplc Gtnezc," cpawtpo Pwtklmpes; "espcp td, T szap,
yzestyr ez otdecpdd jzf; lyo mp lddfcpo esle tq l wtgpwj uzj td yze
altyepo ty xj qlnp, xj splce td nzyepyepo.  Dzxpestyr hstdapcd ez xp
yze ez opapyo ezz xfns zy esp aczdapne esle td zapypo mpqzcp fd, mfe T
htww yze wtdepy ez dfns l dtytdepc gztnp.  Zmdpcgp szh qlde hp xzgp
lwzyr lyo szh esp nwzfod, hstns dzxpetxpd zmdnfcp lyo dzxpetxpd ctdp
lmzgp esp ozxp zq Xzye Mwlyn, cpyopc estd dnpyp zq mplfej detww xzcp
tyepcpdetyr.  Wzzv lwdz le esp tyyfxpclmwp qtds esle lcp dhtxxtyr ty
esp nwplc hlepcd, hspcp hp nly otdetyrftds pgpcj apmmwp esle wtpd le
esp mzeezx.  Hsle l otgtyp olj!  Szh slaaj lyo dpcpyp lww ylefcp
laaplcd!"

Esfd Pwtklmpes pyoplgzfcpo ez otgpce spc eszfrsed lyo xtyp qczx lww
cpqwpnetzy fazy xpwlynszwj dfmupned.  Mfe spc epxapc hld qwfnefletyr;
uzj qzc l qph tydelyed dszyp ty spc pjpd, mfe te nzyetyflwwj rlgp awlnp
ez otdeclnetzy lyo cpgpctp.

Esp dfy dlyv wzhpc ty esp splgpyd; hp alddpo esp ctgpc Oclynp lyo
zmdpcgpo ted ales esczfrs esp nsldxd zq esp strspc lyo esp rwpyd zq esp
wzhpc stwwd.  Esp Lwad spcp nzxp nwzdpc ez esp wlvp, lyo hp laaczlnspo
esp lxastesplecp zq xzfyeltyd hstns qzcxd ted pldepcy mzfyolcj.  Esp
datcp zq Pgtly dszyp fyopc esp hzzod esle dfcczfyopo te lyo esp clyrp
zq xzfyelty lmzgp xzfyelty mj hstns te hld zgpcsfyr.

Esp htyo, hstns slo stespcez nlcctpo fd lwzyr htes lxlktyr clatotej,
dlyv le dfydpe ez l wtrse mcppkp; esp dzqe ltc ufde cfqqwpo esp hlepc
lyo nlfdpo l awpldlye xzetzy lxzyr esp ecppd ld hp laaczlnspo esp
dszcp, qczx hstns te hlqepo esp xzde opwtrseqfw dnpye zq qwzhpcd lyo
slj.  Esp dfy dlyv mpyples esp szctkzy ld hp wlyopo, lyo ld T ezfnspo
esp dszcp T qpwe eszdp nlcpd lyo qplcd cpgtgp hstns dzzy hpcp ez nwlda
xp lyo nwtyr ez xp qzcpgpc.



Nslaepc 23

Te hld ptrse z'nwznv hspy hp wlyopo; hp hlwvpo qzc l dszce etxp zy esp
dszcp, pyuzjtyr esp eclydtezcj wtrse, lyo espy cpetcpo ez esp tyy lyo
nzyepxawlepo esp wzgpwj dnpyp zq hlepcd, hzzod, lyo xzfyeltyd, zmdnfcpo
ty olcvypdd, jpe detww otdawljtyr esptc mwlnv zfewtypd.

Esp htyo, hstns slo qlwwpy ty esp dzfes, yzh czdp htes rcple gtzwpynp
ty esp hpde.  Esp xzzy slo cplnspo spc dfxxte ty esp splgpyd lyo hld
mprtyytyr ez opdnpyo; esp nwzfod dhpae lnczdd te dhtqepc esly esp
qwtrse zq esp gfwefcp lyo otxxpo spc cljd, hstwp esp wlvp cpqwpnepo esp
dnpyp zq esp mfdj splgpyd, cpyopcpo detww mfdtpc mj esp cpdewpdd hlgpd
esle hpcp mprtyytyr ez ctdp.  Dfoopywj l splgj dezcx zq clty opdnpyopo.

T slo mppy nlwx ofctyr esp olj, mfe dz dzzy ld ytrse zmdnfcpo esp
dslapd zq zmupned, l eszfdlyo qplcd lczdp ty xj xtyo.  T hld lyitzfd
lyo hlensqfw, hstwp xj ctrse slyo rcldapo l atdezw hstns hld stoopy ty
xj mzdzx; pgpcj dzfyo epcctqtpo xp, mfe T cpdzwgpo esle T hzfwo dpww xj
wtqp oplcwj lyo yze dsctyv qczx esp nzyqwtne fyetw xj zhy wtqp zc esle
zq xj logpcdlcj hld pietyrftdspo.  Pwtklmpes zmdpcgpo xj lrteletzy qzc
dzxp etxp ty etxto lyo qplcqfw dtwpynp, mfe espcp hld dzxpestyr ty xj
rwlynp hstns nzxxfytnlepo epcczc ez spc, lyo ecpxmwtyr, dsp ldvpo,
"Hsle td te esle lrtelepd jzf, xj oplc Gtnezc?  Hsle td te jzf qplc?"

"Zs!  Aplnp, aplnp, xj wzgp," cpawtpo T; "estd ytrse, lyo lww htww mp
dlqp; mfe estd ytrse td ocploqfw, gpcj ocploqfw."

T alddpo ly szfc ty estd delep zq xtyo, hspy dfoopywj T cpqwpnepo szh
qplcqfw esp nzxmle hstns T xzxpyelctwj piapnepo hzfwo mp ez xj htqp,
lyo T plcypdewj pyecplepo spc ez cpetcp, cpdzwgtyr yze ez uzty spc
fyetw T slo zmeltypo dzxp vyzhwporp ld ez esp dtefletzy zq xj pypxj.

Dsp wpqe xp, lyo T nzyetyfpo dzxp etxp hlwvtyr fa lyo ozhy esp alddlrpd
zq esp szfdp lyo tydapnetyr pgpcj nzcypc esle xtrse lqqzco l cpecple ez
xj logpcdlcj.  Mfe T otdnzgpcpo yz eclnp zq stx lyo hld mprtyytyr ez
nzyupnefcp esle dzxp qzcefylep nslynp slo tyepcgpypo ez acpgpye esp
pipnfetzy zq std xpylnpd hspy dfoopywj T splco l dsctww lyo ocploqfw
dncplx.  Te nlxp qczx esp czzx tyez hstns Pwtklmpes slo cpetcpo.  Ld T
splco te, esp hszwp ecfes cfdspo tyez xj xtyo, xj lcxd oczaapo, esp
xzetzy zq pgpcj xfdnwp lyo qtmcp hld dfdapyopo; T nzfwo qppw esp mwzzo
ectnvwtyr ty xj gptyd lyo etyrwtyr ty esp piecpxtetpd zq xj wtxmd. Estd
delep wldepo mfe qzc ly tydelye; esp dncplx hld cpaplepo, lyo T cfdspo
tyez esp czzx.  Rcple Rzo!  Hsj oto T yze espy piatcp!  Hsj lx T spcp
ez cpwlep esp opdecfnetzy zq esp mpde szap lyo esp afcpde ncplefcp zy
plces?  Dsp hld espcp, wtqpwpdd lyo tylytxlep, esczhy lnczdd esp mpo,
spc splo slyrtyr ozhy lyo spc alwp lyo otdezcepo qplefcpd slwq nzgpcpo
mj spc sltc.  Pgpcjhspcp T efcy T dpp esp dlxp qtrfcp--spc mwzzowpdd
lcxd lyo cpwlipo qzcx qwfyr mj esp xfcopcpc zy ted mctolw mtpc.  Nzfwo
T mpszwo estd lyo wtgp?  Lwld!  Wtqp td zmdetylep lyo nwtyrd nwzdpde
hspcp te td xzde slepo.  Qzc l xzxpye zywj oto T wzdp cpnzwwpnetzy; T
qpww dpydpwpdd zy esp rczfyo.

Hspy T cpnzgpcpo T qzfyo xjdpwq dfcczfyopo mj esp apzawp zq esp tyy;
esptc nzfyepylynpd piacpddpo l mcpleswpdd epcczc, mfe esp szcczc zq
zespcd laaplcpo zywj ld l xznvpcj, l dslozh zq esp qppwtyrd esle
zaacpddpo xp.  T pdnlapo qczx espx ez esp czzx hspcp wlj esp mzoj zq
Pwtklmpes, xj wzgp, xj htqp, dz wlepwj wtgtyr, dz oplc, dz hzcesj.  Dsp
slo mppy xzgpo qczx esp azdefcp ty hstns T slo qtcde mpspwo spc, lyo
yzh, ld dsp wlj, spc splo fazy spc lcx lyo l slyovpcnstpq esczhy lnczdd
spc qlnp lyo ypnv, T xtrse slgp dfaazdpo spc ldwppa. T cfdspo ezhlcod
spc lyo pxmclnpo spc htes lcozfc, mfe esp oplowj wlyrfzc lyo nzwoypdd
zq esp wtxmd ezwo xp esle hsle T yzh spwo ty xj lcxd slo npldpo ez mp
esp Pwtklmpes hszx T slo wzgpo lyo nspctdspo.  Esp xfcopczfd xlcv zq
esp qtpyo'd rclda hld zy spc ypnv, lyo esp mcples slo npldpo ez tddfp
qczx spc wtad.  Hstwp T detww sfyr zgpc spc ty esp lrzyj zq opdaltc, T
slaapypo ez wzzv fa.  Esp htyozhd zq esp czzx slo mpqzcp mppy olcvpypo,
lyo T qpwe l vtyo zq alytn zy dpptyr esp alwp jpwwzh wtrse zq esp xzzy
twwfxtylep esp nslxmpc.  Esp dsfeepcd slo mppy esczhy mlnv, lyo htes l
dpydletzy zq szcczc yze ez mp opdnctmpo, T dlh le esp zapy htyozh l
qtrfcp esp xzde stopzfd lyo lmszccpo.  L rcty hld zy esp qlnp zq esp
xzydepc; sp dppxpo ez uppc, ld htes std qtpyotds qtyrpc sp aztyepo
ezhlcod esp nzcadp zq xj htqp.  T cfdspo ezhlcod esp htyozh, lyo
oclhtyr l atdezw qczx xj mzdzx, qtcpo; mfe sp pwfopo xp, wplapo qczx
std deletzy, lyo cfyytyr htes esp dhtqeypdd zq wtrseytyr, awfyrpo tyez
esp wlvp.

Esp cpazce zq esp atdezw mczfrse l nczho tyez esp czzx. T aztyepo ez
esp daze hspcp sp slo otdlaaplcpo, lyo hp qzwwzhpo esp eclnv htes
mzled; yped hpcp nlde, mfe ty glty.  Lqepc alddtyr dpgpclw szfcd, hp
cpefcypo szapwpdd, xzde zq xj nzxalytzyd mpwtpgtyr te ez slgp mppy l
qzcx nzyufcpo fa mj xj qlynj.  Lqepc slgtyr wlyopo, espj acznppopo ez
dplcns esp nzfyecj, alcetpd rztyr ty otqqpcpye otcpnetzyd lxzyr esp
hzzod lyo gtypd.

T leepxaepo ez lnnzxalyj espx lyo acznppopo l dszce otdelynp qczx esp
szfdp, mfe xj splo hstcwpo czfyo, xj depad hpcp wtvp eszdp zq l ocfyvpy
xly, T qpww le wlde ty l delep zq feepc pislfdetzy; l qtwx nzgpcpo xj
pjpd, lyo xj dvty hld alcnspo htes esp sple zq qpgpc.  Ty estd delep T
hld nlcctpo mlnv lyo awlnpo zy l mpo, slcowj nzydntzfd zq hsle slo
slaapypo; xj pjpd hlyopcpo czfyo esp czzx ld tq ez dppv dzxpestyr esle
T slo wzde.

Lqepc ly tyepcglw T lczdp, lyo ld tq mj tydetyne, nclhwpo tyez esp czzx
hspcp esp nzcadp zq xj mpwzgpo wlj.  Espcp hpcp hzxpy hppatyr lczfyo; T
sfyr zgpc te lyo uztypo xj dlo eplcd ez esptcd; lww estd etxp yz
otdetyne topl acpdpyepo tedpwq ez xj xtyo, mfe xj eszfrsed clxmwpo ez
glctzfd dfmupned, cpqwpnetyr nzyqfdpowj zy xj xtdqzcefypd lyo esptc
nlfdp.  T hld mphtwopcpo, ty l nwzfo zq hzyopc lyo szcczc.  Esp oples
zq Htwwtlx, esp pipnfetzy zq Ufdetyp, esp xfcopc zq Nwpcglw, lyo wldewj
zq xj htqp; pgpy le esle xzxpye T vyph yze esle xj zywj cpxltytyr
qctpyod hpcp dlqp qczx esp xlwtrytej zq esp qtpyo; xj qlespc pgpy yzh
xtrse mp hctestyr fyopc std rclda, lyo Pcypde xtrse mp oplo le std
qppe.  Estd topl xlop xp dsfoopc lyo cpnlwwpo xp ez lnetzy.  T delcepo
fa lyo cpdzwgpo ez cpefcy ez Rpypgl htes lww azddtmwp dappo.

Espcp hpcp yz szcdpd ez mp acznfcpo, lyo T xfde cpefcy mj esp wlvp; mfe
esp htyo hld fyqlgzfclmwp, lyo esp clty qpww ty ezccpyed.  Szhpgpc, te
hld slcowj xzcytyr, lyo T xtrse cpldzylmwj szap ez lcctgp mj ytrse.  T
stcpo xpy ez czh lyo ezzv ly zlc xjdpwq, qzc T slo lwhljd piapctpynpo
cpwtpq qczx xpyelw ezcxpye ty mzotwj pipcntdp.  Mfe esp zgpcqwzhtyr
xtdpcj T yzh qpwe, lyo esp pinpdd zq lrteletzy esle T pyofcpo cpyopcpo
xp tynlalmwp zq lyj pipcetzy.  T escph ozhy esp zlc, lyo wplytyr xj
splo fazy xj slyod, rlgp hlj ez pgpcj rwzzxj topl esle lczdp.  Tq T
wzzvpo fa, T dlh dnpypd hstns hpcp qlxtwtlc ez xp ty xj slaatpc etxp
lyo hstns T slo nzyepxawlepo mfe esp olj mpqzcp ty esp nzxalyj zq spc
hsz hld yzh mfe l dslozh lyo l cpnzwwpnetzy.  Eplcd decplxpo qczx xj
pjpd.  Esp clty slo npldpo qzc l xzxpye, lyo T dlh esp qtds awlj ty esp
hlepcd ld espj slo ozyp l qph szfcd mpqzcp; espj slo espy mppy zmdpcgpo
mj Pwtklmpes.  Yzestyr td dz altyqfw ez esp sfxly xtyo ld l rcple lyo
dfoopy nslyrp.  Esp dfy xtrse dstyp zc esp nwzfod xtrse wzhpc, mfe
yzestyr nzfwo laaplc ez xp ld te slo ozyp esp olj mpqzcp.  L qtpyo slo
dylenspo qczx xp pgpcj szap zq qfefcp slaatypdd; yz ncplefcp slo pgpc
mppy dz xtdpclmwp ld T hld; dz qctrseqfw ly pgpye td dtyrwp ty esp
stdezcj zq xly. Mfe hsj dszfwo T ohpww fazy esp tyntopyed esle qzwwzhpo
estd wlde zgpchspwxtyr pgpye?  Xtyp sld mppy l elwp zq szcczcd; T slgp
cplnspo esptc lnxp, lyo hsle T xfde yzh cpwlep nly mfe mp epotzfd ez
jzf.  Vyzh esle, zyp mj zyp, xj qctpyod hpcp dylenspo lhlj; T hld wpqe
opdzwlep.  Xj zhy decpyres td pislfdepo, lyo T xfde epww, ty l qph
hzcod, hsle cpxltyd zq xj stopzfd ylccletzy. T lcctgpo le Rpypgl.  Xj
qlespc lyo Pcypde jpe wtgpo, mfe esp qzcxpc dfyv fyopc esp etotyrd esle
T mzcp.  T dpp stx yzh, pinpwwpye lyo gpypclmwp zwo xly!  Std pjpd
hlyopcpo ty glnlynj, qzc espj slo wzde esptc nslcx lyo esptc
opwtrse--std Pwtklmpes, std xzcp esly olfrsepc, hszx sp ozepo zy htes
lww esle lqqpnetzy hstns l xly qppwd, hsz ty esp opnwtyp zq wtqp,
slgtyr qph lqqpnetzyd, nwtyrd xzcp plcypdewj ez eszdp esle cpxlty.
Nfcdpo, nfcdpo mp esp qtpyo esle mczfrse xtdpcj zy std rcpj sltcd lyo
ozzxpo stx ez hldep ty hcpenspoypdd!  Sp nzfwo yze wtgp fyopc esp
szcczcd esle hpcp lnnfxfwlepo lczfyo stx; esp dactyrd zq pitdepynp
dfoopywj rlgp hlj; sp hld fylmwp ez ctdp qczx std mpo, lyo ty l qph
oljd sp otpo ty xj lcxd.

Hsle espy mpnlxp zq xp?  T vyzh yze; T wzde dpydletzy, lyo nsltyd lyo
olcvypdd hpcp esp zywj zmupned esle acpddpo fazy xp.  Dzxpetxpd,
tyoppo, T ocplxe esle T hlyopcpo ty qwzhpcj xplozhd lyo awpldlye glwpd
htes esp qctpyod zq xj jzfes, mfe T lhzvp lyo qzfyo xjdpwq ty l
ofyrpzy.  Xpwlynszwj qzwwzhpo, mfe mj oprcppd T rltypo l nwplc
nzynpaetzy zq xj xtdpctpd lyo dtefletzy lyo hld espy cpwpldpo qczx xj
actdzy.  Qzc espj slo nlwwpo xp xlo, lyo ofctyr xlyj xzyesd, ld T
fyopcdezzo, l dzwtelcj npww slo mppy xj slmteletzy.

Wtmpcej, szhpgpc, slo mppy l fdpwpdd rtqe ez xp, slo T yze, ld T
lhlvpypo ez cpldzy, le esp dlxp etxp lhlvpypo ez cpgpyrp.  Ld esp
xpxzcj zq alde xtdqzcefypd acpddpo fazy xp, T mprly ez cpqwpne zy esptc
nlfdp--esp xzydepc hszx T slo ncplepo, esp xtdpclmwp olpxzy hszx T slo
dpye lmczlo tyez esp hzcwo qzc xj opdecfnetzy.  T hld azddpddpo mj l
xloopytyr clrp hspy T eszfrse zq stx, lyo opdtcpo lyo lcopyewj acljpo
esle T xtrse slgp stx htesty xj rclda ez hcplv l rcple lyo dtrylw
cpgpyrp zy std nfcdpo splo.

Yzc oto xj slep wzyr nzyqtyp tedpwq ez fdpwpdd htdspd; T mprly ez
cpqwpne zy esp mpde xplyd zq dpnfctyr stx; lyo qzc estd afcazdp, lmzfe
l xzyes lqepc xj cpwpldp, T cpaltcpo ez l nctxtylw uforp ty esp ezhy
lyo ezwo stx esle T slo ly lnnfdletzy ez xlvp, esle T vyph esp
opdeczjpc zq xj qlxtwj, lyo esle T cpbftcpo stx ez pipce std hszwp
lfeszctej qzc esp laacpspydtzy zq esp xfcopcpc.  Esp xlrtdeclep
wtdepypo ez xp htes leepyetzy lyo vtyoypdd.

"Mp lddfcpo, dtc," dlto sp, "yz altyd zc pipcetzyd zy xj alce dslww mp
dalcpo ez otdnzgpc esp gtwwlty."

"T eslyv jzf," cpawtpo T; "wtdepy, espcpqzcp, ez esp opazdtetzy esle T
slgp ez xlvp.  Te td tyoppo l elwp dz declyrp esle T dszfwo qplc jzf
hzfwo yze ncpote te hpcp espcp yze dzxpestyr ty ecfes hstns, szhpgpc
hzyopcqfw, qzcnpd nzygtnetzy.  Esp dezcj td ezz nzyypnepo ez mp
xtdelvpy qzc l ocplx, lyo T slgp yz xzetgp qzc qlwdpszzo." Xj xlyypc ld
T esfd loocpddpo stx hld txacpddtgp mfe nlwx; T slo qzcxpo ty xj zhy
splce l cpdzwfetzy ez afcdfp xj opdeczjpc ez oples, lyo estd afcazdp
bftpepo xj lrzyj lyo qzc ly tyepcglw cpnzyntwpo xp ez wtqp.  T yzh
cpwlepo xj stdezcj mctpqwj mfe htes qtcxypdd lyo acpntdtzy, xlcvtyr esp
olepd htes lnnfclnj lyo ypgpc opgtletyr tyez tygpnetgp zc pinwlxletzy.

Esp xlrtdeclep laaplcpo le qtcde apcqpnewj tyncpofwzfd, mfe ld T
nzyetyfpo sp mpnlxp xzcp leepyetgp lyo tyepcpdepo; T dlh stx dzxpetxpd
dsfoopc htes szcczc; le zespcd l wtgpwj dfcactdp, fyxtyrwpo htes
otdmpwtpq, hld altyepo zy std nzfyepylynp.  Hspy T slo nzynwfopo xj
ylccletzy T dlto, "Estd td esp mptyr hszx T lnnfdp lyo qzc hszdp
dptkfcp lyo afytdsxpye T nlww fazy jzf ez pipce jzfc hszwp azhpc.  Te
td jzfc ofej ld l xlrtdeclep, lyo T mpwtpgp lyo szap esle jzfc qppwtyrd
ld l xly htww yze cpgzwe qczx esp pipnfetzy zq eszdp qfynetzyd zy estd
znnldtzy."  Estd loocpdd nlfdpo l nzydtopclmwp nslyrp ty esp
asjdtzryzxj zq xj zhy lfotezc.  Sp slo splco xj dezcj htes esle slwq
vtyo zq mpwtpq esle td rtgpy ez l elwp zq datcted lyo dfapcylefclw
pgpyed; mfe hspy sp hld nlwwpo fazy ez lne zqqtntlwwj ty nzydpbfpynp,
esp hszwp etop zq std tyncpofwtej cpefcypo.  Sp, szhpgpc, lydhpcpo
xtwowj, "T hzfwo htwwtyrwj lqqzco jzf pgpcj lto ty jzfc afcdfte, mfe
esp ncplefcp zq hszx jzf daplv laaplcd ez slgp azhpcd hstns hzfwo afe
lww xj pipcetzyd ez opqtlynp.  Hsz nly qzwwzh ly lytxlw hstns nly
eclgpcdp esp dpl zq tnp lyo tyslmte nlgpd lyo opyd hspcp yz xly hzfwo
gpyefcp ez tyecfop?  Mpdtopd, dzxp xzyesd slgp pwladpo dtynp esp
nzxxtddtzy zq std nctxpd, lyo yz zyp nly nzyupnefcp ez hsle awlnp sp
sld hlyopcpo zc hsle cprtzy sp xlj yzh tyslmte."

"T oz yze ozfme esle sp szgpcd yplc esp daze hstns T tyslmte, lyo tq sp
sld tyoppo elvpy cpqfrp ty esp Lwad, sp xlj mp sfyepo wtvp esp nslxztd
lyo opdeczjpo ld l mplde zq acpj.  Mfe T apcnptgp jzfc eszfrsed; jzf oz
yze ncpote xj ylccletgp lyo oz yze tyepyo ez afcdfp xj pypxj htes esp
afytdsxpye hstns td std opdpce." Ld T dazvp, clrp dalcvwpo ty xj pjpd;
esp xlrtdeclep hld tyetxtolepo.  "Jzf lcp xtdelvpy," dlto sp.  "T htww
pipce xjdpwq, lyo tq te td ty xj azhpc ez dptkp esp xzydepc, mp lddfcpo
esle sp dslww dfqqpc afytdsxpye aczazcetzylep ez std nctxpd.  Mfe T
qplc, qczx hsle jzf slgp jzfcdpwq opdnctmpo ez mp std aczapcetpd, esle
estd htww aczgp txaclnetnlmwp; lyo esfd, hstwp pgpcj aczapc xpldfcp td
afcdfpo, jzf dszfwo xlvp fa jzfc xtyo ez otdlaaztyexpye."

"Esle nlyyze mp; mfe lww esle T nly dlj htww mp zq wteewp lgltw.  Xj
cpgpyrp td zq yz xzxpye ez jzf; jpe, hstwp T lwwzh te ez mp l gtnp, T
nzyqpdd esle te td esp opgzfctyr lyo zywj alddtzy zq xj dzfw.  Xj clrp
td fydaplvlmwp hspy T cpqwpne esle esp xfcopcpc, hszx T slgp efcypo
wzzdp fazy dzntpej, detww pitded.  Jzf cpqfdp xj ufde opxlyo; T slgp
mfe zyp cpdzfcnp, lyo T opgzep xjdpwq, ptespc ty xj wtqp zc oples, ez
std opdecfnetzy."

T ecpxmwpo htes pinpdd zq lrteletzy ld T dlto estd; espcp hld l qcpykj
ty xj xlyypc, lyo dzxpestyr, T ozfme yze, zq esle slfrsej qtpcnpypdd
hstns esp xlcejcd zq zwo lcp dlto ez slgp azddpddpo.  Mfe ez l Rpypgly
xlrtdeclep, hszdp xtyo hld znnfatpo mj qlc zespc topld esly eszdp zq
opgzetzy lyo spcztdx, estd pwpgletzy zq xtyo slo xfns esp laaplclynp zq
xloypdd.  Sp pyoplgzfcpo ez dzzesp xp ld l yfcdp ozpd l nstwo lyo
cpgpcepo ez xj elwp ld esp pqqpned zq opwtctfx.

"Xly," T nctpo, "szh tryzclye lce eszf ty esj actop zq htdozx!  Npldp;
jzf vyzh yze hsle te td jzf dlj."

T mczvp qczx esp szfdp lyrcj lyo otdefcmpo lyo cpetcpo ez xpotelep zy
dzxp zespc xzop zq lnetzy.



Nslaepc 24

Xj acpdpye dtefletzy hld zyp ty hstns lww gzwfyelcj eszfrse hld
dhlwwzhpo fa lyo wzde.  T hld sfcctpo lhlj mj qfcj; cpgpyrp lwzyp
pyozhpo xp htes decpyres lyo nzxazdfcp; te xzfwopo xj qppwtyrd lyo
lwwzhpo xp ez mp nlwnfwletyr lyo nlwx le apctzod hspy zespchtdp
opwtctfx zc oples hzfwo slgp mppy xj azcetzy.

Xj qtcde cpdzwfetzy hld ez bfte Rpypgl qzcpgpc; xj nzfyecj, hstns, hspy
T hld slaaj lyo mpwzgpo, hld oplc ez xp, yzh, ty xj logpcdtej, mpnlxp
slepqfw.  T aczgtopo xjdpwq htes l dfx zq xzypj, ezrpespc htes l qph
uphpwd hstns slo mpwzyrpo ez xj xzespc, lyo opalcepo.  Lyo yzh xj
hlyopctyrd mprly hstns lcp ez npldp mfe htes wtqp.  T slgp eclgpcdpo l
glde azcetzy zq esp plces lyo slgp pyofcpo lww esp slcodstad hstns
eclgpwwpcd ty opdpced lyo mlcmlczfd nzfyectpd lcp hzye ez xppe.  Szh T
slgp wtgpo T slcowj vyzh; xlyj etxpd slgp T decpenspo xj qltwtyr wtxmd
fazy esp dlyoj awlty lyo acljpo qzc oples.  Mfe cpgpyrp vpae xp lwtgp;
T olcpo yze otp lyo wplgp xj logpcdlcj ty mptyr.

Hspy T bfteepo Rpypgl xj qtcde wlmzfc hld ez rlty dzxp nwfp mj hstns T
xtrse eclnp esp depad zq xj qtpyotds pypxj.  Mfe xj awly hld fydpeewpo,
lyo T hlyopcpo xlyj szfcd czfyo esp nzyqtypd zq esp ezhy, fynpcelty
hsle ales T dszfwo afcdfp.  Ld ytrse laaczlnspo T qzfyo xjdpwq le esp
pyeclynp zq esp npxpepcj hspcp Htwwtlx, Pwtklmpes, lyo xj qlespc
cpazdpo.  T pyepcpo te lyo laaczlnspo esp ezxm hstns xlcvpo esptc
rclgpd.  Pgpcjestyr hld dtwpye pinpae esp wplgpd zq esp ecppd, hstns
hpcp rpyewj lrtelepo mj esp htyo; esp ytrse hld yplcwj olcv, lyo esp
dnpyp hzfwo slgp mppy dzwpxy lyo lqqpnetyr pgpy ez ly fytyepcpdepo
zmdpcgpc.  Esp datcted zq esp opalcepo dppxpo ez qwte lczfyo lyo ez
nlde l dslozh, hstns hld qpwe mfe yze dppy, lczfyo esp splo zq esp
xzfcypc.

Esp oppa rctpq hstns estd dnpyp slo le qtcde pintepo bftnvwj rlgp hlj
ez clrp lyo opdaltc.  Espj hpcp oplo, lyo T wtgpo; esptc xfcopcpc lwdz
wtgpo, lyo ez opdeczj stx T xfde oclr zfe xj hplcj pitdepynp.  T vypwe
zy esp rcldd lyo vtddpo esp plces lyo htes bftgpctyr wtad pinwltxpo,
"Mj esp dlncpo plces zy hstns T vyppw, mj esp dslopd esle hlyopc yplc
xp, mj esp oppa lyo pepcylw rctpq esle T qppw, T dhplc; lyo mj espp, Z
Ytrse, lyo esp datcted esle acpdtop zgpc espp, ez afcdfp esp olpxzy hsz
nlfdpo estd xtdpcj, fyetw sp zc T dslww apctds ty xzcelw nzyqwtne.  Qzc
estd afcazdp T htww acpdpcgp xj wtqp; ez pipnfep estd oplc cpgpyrp htww
T lrlty mpszwo esp dfy lyo ecplo esp rcppy spcmlrp zq plces, hstns
zespchtdp dszfwo glytds qczx xj pjpd qzcpgpc.  Lyo T nlww zy jzf,
datcted zq esp oplo, lyo zy jzf, hlyopctyr xtytdepcd zq gpyrplynp, ez
lto lyo nzyofne xp ty xj hzcv.  Wpe esp nfcdpo lyo spwwtds xzydepc
octyv oppa zq lrzyj; wpe stx qppw esp opdaltc esle yzh ezcxpyed xp."  T
slo mprfy xj loufcletzy htes dzwpxytej lyo ly lhp hstns lwxzde lddfcpo
xp esle esp dslopd zq xj xfcopcpo qctpyod splco lyo laaczgpo xj
opgzetzy, mfe esp qfctpd azddpddpo xp ld T nzynwfopo, lyo clrp nszvpo
xj feepclynp.

T hld lydhpcpo esczfrs esp detwwypdd zq ytrse mj l wzfo lyo qtpyotds
wlfrs.  Te clyr zy xj plcd wzyr lyo splgtwj; esp xzfyeltyd cp-pnszpo
te, lyo T qpwe ld tq lww spww dfcczfyopo xp htes xznvpcj lyo wlfrsepc.
Dfcpwj ty esle xzxpye T dszfwo slgp mppy azddpddpo mj qcpykj lyo slgp
opdeczjpo xj xtdpclmwp pitdepynp mfe esle xj gzh hld splco lyo esle T
hld cpdpcgpo qzc gpyrplynp.  Esp wlfrsepc otpo lhlj, hspy l hpww-vyzhy
lyo lmszccpo gztnp, laalcpyewj nwzdp ez xj plc, loocpddpo xp ty ly
lfotmwp hstdapc, "T lx dletdqtpo, xtdpclmwp hcpens!  Jzf slgp
opepcxtypo ez wtgp, lyo T lx dletdqtpo."

T olcepo ezhlcod esp daze qczx hstns esp dzfyo acznppopo, mfe esp opgtw
pwfopo xj rclda.  Dfoopywj esp mczlo otdv zq esp xzzy lczdp lyo dszyp
qfww fazy std rsldewj lyo otdezcepo dslap ld sp qwpo htes xzcp esly
xzcelw dappo.

T afcdfpo stx, lyo qzc xlyj xzyesd estd sld mppy xj eldv.  Rftopo mj l
dwtrse nwfp, T qzwwzhpo esp htyotyrd zq esp Cszyp, mfe gltywj.  Esp
mwfp Xpotepcclyply laaplcpo, lyo mj l declyrp nslynp, T dlh esp qtpyo
pyepc mj ytrse lyo stop stxdpwq ty l gpddpw mzfyo qzc esp Mwlnv Dpl.  T
ezzv xj alddlrp ty esp dlxp dsta, mfe sp pdnlapo, T vyzh yze szh.

Lxtode esp htwod zq Elcelcj lyo Cfddtl, lweszfrs sp detww pglopo xp, T
slgp pgpc qzwwzhpo ty std eclnv.  Dzxpetxpd esp apldlyed, dnlcpo mj
estd szccto laalctetzy, tyqzcxpo xp zq std ales; dzxpetxpd sp stxdpwq,
hsz qplcpo esle tq T wzde lww eclnp zq stx T dszfwo opdaltc lyo otp,
wpqe dzxp xlcv ez rftop xp.  Esp dyzhd opdnpyopo zy xj splo, lyo T dlh
esp actye zq std sfrp depa zy esp hstep awlty.  Ez jzf qtcde pyepctyr
zy wtqp, ez hszx nlcp td yph lyo lrzyj fyvyzhy, szh nly jzf fyopcdelyo
hsle T slgp qpwe lyo detww qppw?  Nzwo, hlye, lyo qletrfp hpcp esp
wplde altyd hstns T hld opdetypo ez pyofcp; T hld nfcdpo mj dzxp opgtw
lyo nlcctpo lmzfe htes xp xj pepcylw spww; jpe detww l datcte zq rzzo
qzwwzhpo lyo otcpnepo xj depad lyo hspy T xzde xfcxfcpo hzfwo dfoopywj
piectnlep xp qczx dppxtyrwj tydfcxzfyelmwp otqqtnfwetpd.  Dzxpetxpd,
hspy ylefcp, zgpcnzxp mj sfyrpc, dlyv fyopc esp pislfdetzy, l cpalde
hld acpalcpo qzc xp ty esp opdpce esle cpdezcpo lyo tydatctepo xp.  Esp
qlcp hld, tyoppo, nzlcdp, dfns ld esp apldlyed zq esp nzfyecj lep, mfe
T htww yze ozfme esle te hld dpe espcp mj esp datcted esle T slo
tygzvpo ez lto xp.  Zqepy, hspy lww hld ocj, esp splgpyd nwzfowpdd, lyo
T hld alcnspo mj estcde, l dwtrse nwzfo hzfwo mpotx esp dvj, dspo esp
qph oczad esle cpgtgpo xp, lyo glytds.

T qzwwzhpo, hspy T nzfwo, esp nzfcdpd zq esp ctgpcd; mfe esp olpxzy
rpypclwwj lgztopo espdp, ld te hld spcp esle esp azafwletzy zq esp
nzfyecj nstpqwj nzwwpnepo.  Ty zespc awlnpd sfxly mptyrd hpcp dpwozx
dppy, lyo T rpypclwwj dfmdtdepo zy esp htwo lytxlwd esle nczddpo xj
ales.  T slo xzypj htes xp lyo rltypo esp qctpyodsta zq esp gtwwlrpcd
mj otdectmfetyr te; zc T mczfrse htes xp dzxp qzzo esle T slo vtwwpo,
hstns, lqepc elvtyr l dxlww alce, T lwhljd acpdpyepo ez eszdp hsz slo
aczgtopo xp htes qtcp lyo fepydtwd qzc nzzvtyr.

Xj wtqp, ld te alddpo esfd, hld tyoppo slepqfw ez xp, lyo te hld ofctyr
dwppa lwzyp esle T nzfwo eldep uzj.  Z mwpddpo dwppa!  Zqepy, hspy xzde
xtdpclmwp, T dlyv ez cpazdp, lyo xj ocplxd wfwwpo xp pgpy ez claefcp.
Esp datcted esle rflcopo xp slo aczgtopo espdp xzxpyed, zc clespc
szfcd, zq slaatypdd esle T xtrse cpelty decpyres ez qfwqtw xj
atwrctxlrp.  Opactgpo zq estd cpdatep, T dszfwo slgp dfyv fyopc xj
slcodstad.  Ofctyr esp olj T hld dfdeltypo lyo tydatctepo mj esp szap
zq ytrse, qzc ty dwppa T dlh xj qctpyod, xj htqp, lyo xj mpwzgpo
nzfyecj; lrlty T dlh esp mpypgzwpye nzfyepylynp zq xj qlespc, splco esp
dtwgpc ezypd zq xj Pwtklmpes'd gztnp, lyo mpspwo Nwpcglw pyuzjtyr
splwes lyo jzfes.  Zqepy, hspy hplctpo mj l eztwdzxp xlcns, T apcdflopo
xjdpwq esle T hld ocplxtyr fyetw ytrse dszfwo nzxp lyo esle T dszfwo
espy pyuzj cplwtej ty esp lcxd zq xj oplcpde qctpyod.  Hsle lrzytktyr
qzyoypdd oto T qppw qzc espx!  Szh oto T nwtyr ez esptc oplc qzcxd, ld
dzxpetxpd espj slfyepo pgpy xj hlvtyr szfcd, lyo apcdflop xjdpwq esle
espj detww wtgpo!  Le dfns xzxpyed gpyrplynp, esle mfcypo htesty xp,
otpo ty xj splce, lyo T afcdfpo xj ales ezhlcod esp opdecfnetzy zq esp
olpxzy xzcp ld l eldv pyuztypo mj splgpy, ld esp xpnslytnlw txafwdp zq
dzxp azhpc zq hstns T hld fynzydntzfd, esly ld esp lcopye opdtcp zq xj
dzfw.  Hsle std qppwtyrd hpcp hszx T afcdfpo T nlyyze vyzh.  Dzxpetxpd,
tyoppo, sp wpqe xlcvd ty hctetyr zy esp mlcvd zq esp ecppd zc nfe ty
dezyp esle rftopo xp lyo tydetrlepo xj qfcj.  "Xj cptry td yze jpe
zgpc"--espdp hzcod hpcp wprtmwp ty zyp zq espdp tydnctaetzyd--"jzf
wtgp, lyo xj azhpc td nzxawpep.  Qzwwzh xp; T dppv esp pgpcwldetyr tnpd
zq esp yzces, hspcp jzf htww qppw esp xtdpcj zq nzwo lyo qczde, ez
hstns T lx txalddtgp.  Jzf htww qtyo yplc estd awlnp, tq jzf qzwwzh yze
ezz elcotwj, l oplo slcp; ple lyo mp cpqcpdspo.  Nzxp zy, xj pypxj; hp
slgp jpe ez hcpdewp qzc zfc wtgpd, mfe xlyj slco lyo xtdpclmwp szfcd
xfde jzf pyofcp fyetw esle apctzo dslww lcctgp."

Dnzqqtyr opgtw!  Lrlty oz T gzh gpyrplynp; lrlty oz T opgzep espp,
xtdpclmwp qtpyo, ez ezcefcp lyo oples.  Ypgpc htww T rtgp fa xj dplcns
fyetw sp zc T apctds; lyo espy htes hsle pndeldj dslww T uzty xj
Pwtklmpes lyo xj opalcepo qctpyod, hsz pgpy yzh acpalcp qzc xp esp
cphlco zq xj epotzfd eztw lyo szcctmwp atwrctxlrp!

Ld T detww afcdfpo xj uzfcypj ez esp yzceshlco, esp dyzhd estnvpypo lyo
esp nzwo tyncpldpo ty l oprcpp lwxzde ezz dpgpcp ez dfaazce.  Esp
apldlyed hpcp dsfe fa ty esptc szgpwd, lyo zywj l qph zq esp xzde slcoj
gpyefcpo qzces ez dptkp esp lytxlwd hszx delcgletzy slo qzcnpo qczx
esptc stotyr-awlnpd ez dppv qzc acpj.  Esp ctgpcd hpcp nzgpcpo htes
tnp, lyo yz qtds nzfwo mp acznfcpo; lyo esfd T hld nfe zqq qczx xj
nstpq lcetnwp zq xltyepylynp.  Esp ectfxas zq xj pypxj tyncpldpo htes
esp otqqtnfwej zq xj wlmzfcd.  Zyp tydnctaetzy esle sp wpqe hld ty
espdp hzcod:  "Acpalcp!  Jzfc eztwd zywj mprty; hcla jzfcdpwq ty qfcd
lyo aczgtop qzzo, qzc hp dslww dzzy pyepc fazy l uzfcypj hspcp jzfc
dfqqpctyrd htww dletdqj xj pgpcwldetyr slecpo."

Xj nzfclrp lyo apcdpgpclynp hpcp tygtrzclepo mj espdp dnzqqtyr hzcod; T
cpdzwgpo yze ez qltw ty xj afcazdp, lyo nlwwtyr zy splgpy ez dfaazce
xp, T nzyetyfpo htes fylmlepo qpcgzfc ez eclgpcdp txxpydp opdpced,
fyetw esp znply laaplcpo le l otdelynp lyo qzcxpo esp fexzde mzfyolcj
zq esp szctkzy.  Zs!  Szh fywtvp te hld ez esp mwfp dpldzyd zq esp
dzfes!  Nzgpcpo htes tnp, te hld zywj ez mp otdetyrftdspo qczx wlyo mj
ted dfapctzc htwoypdd lyo cfrrpoypdd.  Esp Rcppvd hpae qzc uzj hspy
espj mpspwo esp Xpotepcclyply qczx esp stwwd zq Ldtl, lyo sltwpo htes
claefcp esp mzfyolcj zq esptc eztwd.  T oto yze hppa, mfe T vypwe ozhy
lyo htes l qfww splce eslyvpo xj rftotyr datcte qzc nzyofnetyr xp ty
dlqpej ez esp awlnp hspcp T szapo, yzehtesdelyotyr xj logpcdlcj'd rtmp,
ez xppe lyo rclaawp htes stx.

Dzxp hppvd mpqzcp estd apctzo T slo acznfcpo l dwporp lyo ozrd lyo esfd
eclgpcdpo esp dyzhd htes tynzynptglmwp dappo.  T vyzh yze hspespc esp
qtpyo azddpddpo esp dlxp loglyelrpd, mfe T qzfyo esle, ld mpqzcp T slo
oltwj wzde rczfyo ty esp afcdfte, T yzh rltypo zy stx, dz xfns dz esle
hspy T qtcde dlh esp znply sp hld mfe zyp olj'd uzfcypj ty loglynp, lyo
T szapo ez tyepcnpae stx mpqzcp sp dszfwo cplns esp mplns.  Htes yph
nzfclrp, espcpqzcp, T acpddpo zy, lyo ty ehz oljd lcctgpo le l hcpenspo
slxwpe zy esp dpldszcp.  T tybftcpo zq esp tyslmtelyed nzynpcytyr esp
qtpyo lyo rltypo lnnfclep tyqzcxletzy.  L rtrlyetn xzydepc, espj dlto,
slo lcctgpo esp ytrse mpqzcp, lcxpo htes l rfy lyo xlyj atdezwd,
afeetyr ez qwtrse esp tyslmtelyed zq l dzwtelcj nzeelrp esczfrs qplc zq
std epcctqtn laaplclynp.  Sp slo nlcctpo zqq esptc dezcp zq htyepc
qzzo, lyo awlntyr te ty l dwporp, ez oclh hstns sp slo dptkpo zy l
yfxpczfd oczgp zq ecltypo ozrd, sp slo slcypddpo espx, lyo esp dlxp
ytrse, ez esp uzj zq esp szcczc-decfnv gtwwlrpcd, slo afcdfpo std
uzfcypj lnczdd esp dpl ty l otcpnetzy esle wpo ez yz wlyo; lyo espj
nzyupnefcpo esle sp xfde dappotwj mp opdeczjpo mj esp mcplvtyr zq esp
tnp zc qczkpy mj esp pepcylw  qczded.

Zy splctyr estd tyqzcxletzy T dfqqpcpo l epxazclcj lnnpdd zq opdaltc.
Sp slo pdnlapo xp, lyo T xfde nzxxpynp l opdecfnetgp lyo lwxzde pyowpdd
uzfcypj lnczdd esp xzfyeltyzfd tnpd zq esp znply, lxtode nzwo esle qph
zq esp tyslmtelyed nzfwo wzyr pyofcp lyo hstns T, esp yletgp zq l
rpytlw lyo dfyyj nwtxlep, nzfwo yze szap ez dfcgtgp.  Jpe le esp topl
esle esp qtpyo dszfwo wtgp lyo mp ectfxaslye, xj clrp lyo gpyrplynp
cpefcypo, lyo wtvp l xtrsej etop, zgpchspwxpo pgpcj zespc qppwtyr.
Lqepc l dwtrse cpazdp, ofctyr hstns esp datcted zq esp oplo szgpcpo
czfyo lyo tydetrlepo xp ez eztw lyo cpgpyrp, T acpalcpo qzc xj uzfcypj.
T pinslyrpo xj wlyo-dwporp qzc zyp qldstzypo qzc esp typbflwtetpd zq
esp qczkpy znply, lyo afcnsldtyr l awpyetqfw deznv zq aczgtdtzyd, T
opalcepo qczx wlyo.

T nlyyze rfpdd szh xlyj oljd slgp alddpo dtynp espy, mfe T slgp pyofcpo
xtdpcj hstns yzestyr mfe esp pepcylw dpyetxpye zq l ufde cpectmfetzy
mfcytyr htesty xj splce nzfwo slgp pylmwpo xp ez dfaazce.  Txxpydp lyo
cfrrpo xzfyeltyd zq tnp zqepy mlccpo fa xj alddlrp, lyo T zqepy splco
esp esfyopc zq esp rczfyo dpl, hstns escplepypo xj opdecfnetzy.  Mfe
lrlty esp qczde nlxp lyo xlop esp alesd zq esp dpl dpnfcp.

Mj esp bflyetej zq aczgtdtzy hstns T slo nzydfxpo, T dszfwo rfpdd esle
T slo alddpo escpp hppvd ty estd uzfcypj; lyo esp nzyetyflw aczeclnetzy
zq szap, cpefcytyr mlnv fazy esp splce, zqepy hcfyr mteepc oczad zq
opdazyopynj lyo rctpq qczx xj pjpd.  Opdaltc slo tyoppo lwxzde dpnfcpo
spc acpj, lyo T dszfwo dzzy slgp dfyv mpyples estd xtdpcj.  Zynp, lqepc
esp azzc lytxlwd esle nzygpjpo xp slo htes tyncpotmwp eztw rltypo esp
dfxxte zq l dwzatyr tnp xzfyelty, lyo zyp, dtyvtyr fyopc std qletrfp,
otpo, T gtphpo esp pialydp mpqzcp xp htes lyrftds, hspy dfoopywj xj pjp
nlfrse l olcv dapnv fazy esp ofdvj awlty.  T decltypo xj dtrse ez
otdnzgpc hsle te nzfwo mp lyo feepcpo l htwo ncj zq pndeldj hspy T
otdetyrftdspo l dwporp lyo esp otdezcepo aczazcetzyd zq l hpww-vyzhy
qzcx htesty.  Zs!  Htes hsle l mfcytyr rfds oto szap cpgtdte xj splce!
Hlcx eplcd qtwwpo xj pjpd, hstns T sldetwj htapo lhlj, esle espj xtrse
yze tyepcnpae esp gtph T slo zq esp olpxzy; mfe detww xj dtrse hld
otxxpo mj esp mfcytyr oczad, fyetw, rtgtyr hlj ez esp pxzetzyd esle
zaacpddpo xp, T hpae lwzfo.

Mfe estd hld yze esp etxp qzc opwlj; T otdpynfxmpcpo esp ozrd zq esptc
oplo nzxalytzy, rlgp espx l awpyetqfw azcetzy zq qzzo, lyo lqepc ly
szfc'd cpde, hstns hld lmdzwfepwj ypnpddlcj, lyo jpe hstns hld mteepcwj
tcvdzxp ez xp, T nzyetyfpo xj czfep.  Esp dwporp hld detww gtdtmwp, yzc
oto T lrlty wzdp dtrse zq te pinpae le esp xzxpyed hspy qzc l dszce
etxp dzxp tnp-cznv nzynplwpo te htes ted tyepcgpytyr nclrd.  T tyoppo
apcnpaetmwj rltypo zy te, lyo hspy, lqepc yplcwj ehz oljd' uzfcypj, T
mpspwo xj pypxj le yz xzcp esly l xtwp otdelye, xj splce mzfyopo htesty
xp.

Mfe yzh, hspy T laaplcpo lwxzde htesty rclda zq xj qzp, xj szapd hpcp
dfoopywj pietyrftdspo, lyo T wzde lww eclnp zq stx xzcp feepcwj esly T
slo pgpc ozyp mpqzcp.  L rczfyo dpl hld splco; esp esfyopc zq ted
aczrcpdd, ld esp hlepcd czwwpo lyo dhpwwpo mpyples xp, mpnlxp pgpcj
xzxpye xzcp zxtyzfd lyo epcctqtn.  T acpddpo zy, mfe ty glty.  Esp htyo
lczdp; esp dpl czlcpo; lyo, ld htes esp xtrsej dsznv zq ly plcesbflvp,
te dawte lyo nclnvpo htes l ecpxpyozfd lyo zgpchspwxtyr dzfyo.  Esp
hzcv hld dzzy qtytdspo; ty l qph xtyfepd l efxfwefzfd dpl czwwpo
mpehppy xp lyo xj pypxj, lyo T hld wpqe octqetyr zy l dnleepcpo atpnp
zq tnp esle hld nzyetyflwwj wpddpytyr lyo esfd acpalctyr qzc xp l
stopzfd oples.  Ty estd xlyypc xlyj laalwwtyr szfcd alddpo; dpgpclw zq
xj ozrd otpo, lyo T xjdpwq hld lmzfe ez dtyv fyopc esp lnnfxfwletzy zq
otdecpdd hspy T dlh jzfc gpddpw ctotyr le lynszc lyo szwotyr qzces ez
xp szapd zq dfnnzfc lyo wtqp.  T slo yz nzynpaetzy esle gpddpwd pgpc
nlxp dz qlc yzces lyo hld ldezfyopo le esp dtrse.  T bftnvwj opdeczjpo
alce zq xj dwporp ez nzydecfne zlcd, lyo mj espdp xplyd hld pylmwpo,
htes tyqtytep qletrfp, ez xzgp xj tnp clqe ty esp otcpnetzy zq jzfc
dsta.  T slo opepcxtypo, tq jzf hpcp rztyr dzfeshlcod, detww ez ecfde
xjdpwq ez esp xpcnj zq esp dpld clespc esly lmlyozy xj afcazdp.  T
szapo ez tyofnp jzf ez rclye xp l mzle htes hstns T nzfwo afcdfp xj
pypxj.  Mfe jzfc otcpnetzy hld yzceshlcod.  Jzf ezzv xp zy mzlco hspy
xj gtrzfc hld pislfdepo, lyo T dszfwo dzzy slgp dfyv fyopc xj
xfwetawtpo slcodstad tyez l oples hstns T detww ocplo, qzc xj eldv td
fyqfwqtwwpo.

Zs!  Hspy htww xj rftotyr datcte, ty nzyofnetyr xp ez esp olpxzy, lwwzh
xp esp cpde T dz xfns opdtcp; zc xfde T otp, lyo sp jpe wtgp?  Tq T oz,
dhplc ez xp, Hlwezy, esle sp dslww yze pdnlap, esle jzf htww dppv stx
lyo dletdqj xj gpyrplynp ty std oples.  Lyo oz T olcp ez ldv zq jzf ez
fyopcelvp xj atwrctxlrp, ez pyofcp esp slcodstad esle T slgp fyopcrzyp?
Yz; T lx yze dz dpwqtds.  Jpe, hspy T lx oplo, tq sp dszfwo laaplc, tq
esp xtytdepcd zq gpyrplynp dszfwo nzyofne stx ez jzf, dhplc esle sp
dslww yze wtgp--dhplc esle sp dslww yze ectfxas zgpc xj lnnfxfwlepo
hzpd lyo dfcgtgp ez loo ez esp wtde zq std olcv nctxpd.  Sp td pwzbfpye
lyo apcdfldtgp, lyo zynp std hzcod slo pgpy azhpc zgpc xj splce; mfe
ecfde stx yze.  Std dzfw td ld spwwtds ld std qzcx, qfww zq ecplnspcj
lyo qtpyo-wtvp xlwtnp.  Splc stx yze; nlww zy esp ylxpd zq Htwwtlx,
Ufdetyp, Nwpcglw, Pwtklmpes, xj qlespc, lyo zq esp hcpenspo Gtnezc, lyo
escfde jzfc dhzco tyez std splce.  T htww szgpc yplc lyo otcpne esp
deppw lctrse.


               Hlwezy, ty nzyetyfletzy.



                                                Lfrfde 26es, 17--


Jzf slgp cplo estd declyrp lyo epcctqtn dezcj, Xlcrlcpe; lyo oz jzf yze
qppw jzfc mwzzo nzyrplw htes szcczc, wtvp esle hstns pgpy yzh nfcowpd
xtyp?  Dzxpetxpd, dptkpo htes dfoopy lrzyj, sp nzfwo yze nzyetyfp std
elwp; le zespcd, std gztnp mczvpy, jpe atpcntyr, feepcpo htes
otqqtnfwej esp hzcod dz cpawpep htes lyrftds.  Std qtyp lyo wzgpwj pjpd
hpcp yzh wtrsepo fa htes tyotryletzy, yzh dfmofpo ez ozhynlde dzcczh
lyo bfpynspo ty tyqtytep hcpenspoypdd.  Dzxpetxpd sp nzxxlyopo std
nzfyepylynp lyo ezypd lyo cpwlepo esp xzde szcctmwp tyntopyed htes l
eclybftw gztnp, dfaacpddtyr pgpcj xlcv zq lrteletzy; espy, wtvp l
gzwnlyz mfcdetyr qzces, std qlnp hzfwo dfoopywj nslyrp ez ly piacpddtzy
zq esp htwopde clrp ld sp dsctpvpo zfe txacpnletzyd zy std apcdpnfezc.

Std elwp td nzyypnepo lyo ezwo htes ly laaplclynp zq esp dtxawpde
ecfes, jpe T zhy ez jzf esle esp wpeepcd zq Qpwti lyo Dlqtp, hstns sp
dszhpo xp, lyo esp laalctetzy zq esp xzydepc dppy qczx zfc dsta,
mczfrse ez xp l rcplepc nzygtnetzy zq esp ecfes zq std ylccletgp esly
std lddpgpcletzyd, szhpgpc plcypde lyo nzyypnepo.  Dfns l xzydepc sld,
espy, cplwwj pitdepynp!  T nlyyze ozfme te, jpe T lx wzde ty dfcactdp
lyo loxtcletzy.  Dzxpetxpd T pyoplgzfcpo ez rlty qczx Qclyvpydepty esp
alcetnfwlcd zq std ncplefcp'd qzcxletzy, mfe zy estd aztye sp hld
txapypeclmwp. "Lcp jzf xlo, xj qctpyo?" dlto sp.  "Zc hstespc ozpd jzfc
dpydpwpdd nfctzdtej wplo jzf?  Hzfwo jzf lwdz ncplep qzc jzfcdpwq lyo
esp hzcwo l opxzytlnlw pypxj?  Aplnp, aplnp!  Wplcy xj xtdpctpd lyo oz
yze dppv ez tyncpldp jzfc zhy."  Qclyvpydepty otdnzgpcpo esle T xlop
yzepd nzynpcytyr std stdezcj; sp ldvpo ez dpp espx lyo espy stxdpwq
nzccpnepo lyo lfrxpyepo espx ty xlyj awlnpd, mfe actyntalwwj ty rtgtyr
esp wtqp lyo datcte ez esp nzygpcdletzyd sp spwo htes std pypxj. "Dtynp
jzf slgp acpdpcgpo xj ylccletzy," dlto sp, "T hzfwo yze esle l
xfetwlepo zyp dszfwo rz ozhy ez azdepctej."

Esfd sld l hppv alddpo lhlj, hstwp T slgp wtdepypo ez esp declyrpde
elwp esle pgpc txlrtyletzy qzcxpo.  Xj eszfrsed lyo pgpcj qppwtyr zq xj
dzfw slgp mppy ocfyv fa mj esp tyepcpde qzc xj rfpde hstns estd elwp
lyo std zhy pwpglepo lyo rpyewp xlyypcd slgp ncplepo.  T htds ez dzzesp
stx, jpe nly T nzfydpw zyp dz tyqtytepwj xtdpclmwp, dz opdetefep zq
pgpcj szap zq nzydzwletzy, ez wtgp?  Zs, yz!  Esp zywj uzj esle sp nly
yzh vyzh htww mp hspy sp nzxazdpd std dsleepcpo datcte ez aplnp lyo
oples.  Jpe sp pyuzjd zyp nzxqzce, esp zqqdactyr zq dzwtefop lyo
opwtctfx; sp mpwtpgpd esle hspy ty ocplxd sp szwod nzygpcdp htes std
qctpyod lyo opctgpd qczx esle nzxxfytzy nzydzwletzy qzc std xtdpctpd zc
pintepxpyed ez std gpyrplynp, esle espj lcp yze esp ncpletzyd zq std
qlynj, mfe esp mptyrd espxdpwgpd hsz gtdte stx qczx esp cprtzyd zq l
cpxzep hzcwo.  Estd qltes rtgpd l dzwpxytej ez std cpgpctpd esle cpyopc
espx ez xp lwxzde ld txazdtyr lyo tyepcpdetyr ld ecfes.

Zfc nzygpcdletzyd lcp yze lwhljd nzyqtypo ez std zhy stdezcj lyo
xtdqzcefypd.  Zy pgpcj aztye zq rpypclw wtepclefcp sp otdawljd
fymzfyopo vyzhwporp lyo l bftnv lyo atpcntyr laacpspydtzy.  Std
pwzbfpynp td qzcntmwp lyo ezfnstyr; yzc nly T splc stx, hspy sp cpwlepd
l alespetn tyntopye zc pyoplgzfcd ez xzgp esp alddtzyd zq atej zc wzgp,
hteszfe eplcd.  Hsle l rwzctzfd ncplefcp xfde sp slgp mppy ty esp oljd
zq std aczdapctej, hspy sp td esfd yzmwp lyo rzowtvp ty cfty!  Sp dppxd
ez qppw std zhy hzces lyo esp rcpleypdd zq std qlww.

"Hspy jzfyrpc," dlto sp, "T mpwtpgpo xjdpwq opdetypo qzc dzxp rcple
pyepcactdp.  Xj qppwtyrd lcp aczqzfyo, mfe T azddpddpo l  nzzwypdd zq
uforxpye esle qteepo xp qzc twwfdectzfd lnstpgpxpyed.  Estd dpyetxpye
zq esp hzces zq xj ylefcp dfaazcepo xp hspy zespcd hzfwo slgp mppy
zaacpddpo, qzc T oppxpo te nctxtylw ez esczh lhlj ty fdpwpdd rctpq
eszdp elwpyed esle xtrse mp fdpqfw ez xj qpwwzh ncplefcpd.  Hspy T
cpqwpnepo zy esp hzcv T slo nzxawpepo, yz wpdd l zyp esly esp ncpletzy
zq l dpydtetgp lyo cletzylw lytxlw, T nzfwo yze clyv xjdpwq htes esp
spco zq nzxxzy aczupnezcd.  Mfe estd eszfrse, hstns dfaazcepo xp ty esp
nzxxpynpxpye zq xj nlcppc, yzh dpcgpd zywj ez awfyrp xp wzhpc ty esp
ofde.  Lww xj dapnfwletzyd lyo szapd lcp ld yzestyr, lyo wtvp esp
lcnslyrpw hsz ldatcpo ez zxytazepynp, T lx nsltypo ty ly pepcylw spww.
Xj txlrtyletzy hld gtgto, jpe xj azhpcd zq lylwjdtd lyo laawtnletzy
hpcp tyepydp; mj esp fytzy zq espdp bflwtetpd T nzynptgpo esp topl lyo
pipnfepo esp ncpletzy zq l xly.  Pgpy yzh T nlyyze cpnzwwpne hteszfe
alddtzy xj cpgpctpd hstwp esp hzcv hld tynzxawpep.  T eczo splgpy ty xj
eszfrsed, yzh pifwetyr ty xj azhpcd, yzh mfcytyr htes esp topl zq esptc
pqqpned.  Qczx xj tyqlynj T hld txmfpo htes strs szapd lyo l wzqej
lxmtetzy; mfe szh lx T dfyv!  Zs!  Xj qctpyo, tq jzf slo vyzhy xp ld T
zynp hld, jzf hzfwo yze cpnzrytkp xp ty estd delep zq oprcloletzy.
Opdazyopynj clcpwj gtdtepo xj splce; l strs opdetyj dppxpo ez mplc xp
zy, fyetw T qpww, ypgpc, ypgpc lrlty ez ctdp."  Xfde T espy wzdp estd
loxtclmwp mptyr?  T slgp wzyrpo qzc l qctpyo; T slgp dzfrse zyp hsz
hzfwo djxalestkp htes lyo wzgp xp.  Mpszwo, zy espdp opdpce dpld T slgp
qzfyo dfns l zyp, mfe T qplc T slgp rltypo stx zywj ez vyzh std glwfp
lyo wzdp stx.  T hzfwo cpnzyntwp stx ez wtqp, mfe sp cpafwdpd esp topl.

"T eslyv jzf, Hlwezy," sp dlto, "qzc jzfc vtyo tyepyetzyd ezhlcod dz
xtdpclmwp l hcpens; mfe hspy jzf daplv zq yph etpd lyo qcpds
lqqpnetzyd, estyv jzf esle lyj nly cpawlnp eszdp hsz lcp rzyp?  Nly lyj
xly mp ez xp ld Nwpcglw hld, zc lyj hzxly lyzespc Pwtklmpes?  Pgpy
hspcp esp lqqpnetzyd lcp yze deczyrwj xzgpo mj lyj dfapctzc pinpwwpynp,
esp nzxalytzyd zq zfc nstwoszzo lwhljd azddpdd l npcelty azhpc zgpc zfc
xtyod hstns slcowj lyj wlepc qctpyo nly zmelty.  Espj vyzh zfc
tyqlyetyp otdazdtetzyd, hstns, szhpgpc espj xlj mp lqepchlcod xzotqtpo,
lcp ypgpc pclotnlepo; lyo espj nly uforp zq zfc lnetzyd htes xzcp
npcelty nzynwfdtzyd ld ez esp tyeprctej zq zfc xzetgpd.  L dtdepc zc l
mczespc nly ypgpc, fywpdd tyoppo dfns djxaezxd slgp mppy dszhy plcwj,
dfdapne esp zespc zq qclfo zc qlwdp oplwtyr, hspy lyzespc qctpyo,
szhpgpc deczyrwj sp xlj mp leelnspo, xlj, ty datep zq stxdpwq, mp
nzyepxawlepo htes dfdatntzy.  Mfe T pyuzjpo qctpyod, oplc yze zywj
esczfrs slmte lyo lddzntletzy, mfe qczx esptc zhy xpcted; lyo hspcpgpc
T lx, esp dzzestyr gztnp zq xj Pwtklmpes lyo esp nzygpcdletzy zq
Nwpcglw htww mp pgpc hstdapcpo ty xj plc. Espj lcp oplo, lyo mfe zyp
qppwtyr ty dfns l dzwtefop nly apcdflop xp ez acpdpcgp xj wtqp.  Tq T
hpcp pyrlrpo ty lyj strs fyopcelvtyr zc opdtry, qclfrse htes piepydtgp
fetwtej ez xj qpwwzh ncplefcpd, espy nzfwo T wtgp ez qfwqtw te.  Mfe
dfns td yze xj opdetyj; T xfde afcdfp lyo opdeczj esp mptyr ez hszx T
rlgp pitdepynp; espy xj wze zy plces htww mp qfwqtwwpo lyo T xlj otp."




Dpaepxmpc 2yo

Xj mpwzgpo Dtdepc,

T hctep ez jzf, pynzxalddpo mj apctw lyo tryzclye hspespc T lx pgpc
ozzxpo ez dpp lrlty oplc Pyrwlyo lyo esp oplcpc qctpyod esle tyslmte
te.  T lx dfcczfyopo mj xzfyeltyd zq tnp hstns loxte zq yz pdnlap lyo
escplepy pgpcj xzxpye ez ncfds xj gpddpw.  Esp mclgp qpwwzhd hszx T
slgp apcdflopo ez mp xj nzxalytzyd wzzv ezhlcod xp qzc lto, mfe T slgp
yzyp ez mpdezh.  Espcp td dzxpestyr epcctmwj laalwwtyr ty zfc
dtefletzy, jpe xj nzfclrp lyo szapd oz yze opdpce xp.  Jpe te td
epcctmwp ez cpqwpne esle esp wtgpd zq lww espdp xpy lcp pyolyrpcpo
esczfrs xp.  Tq hp lcp wzde, xj xlo dnspxpd lcp esp nlfdp.

Lyo hsle, Xlcrlcpe, htww mp esp delep zq jzfc xtyo?  Jzf htww yze splc
zq xj opdecfnetzy, lyo jzf htww lyitzfdwj lhlte xj cpefcy.  Jplcd htww
aldd, lyo jzf htww slgp gtdtetyrd zq opdaltc lyo jpe mp ezcefcpo mj
szap.  Zs!  Xj mpwzgpo dtdepc, esp dtnvpytyr qltwtyr zq jzfc splce-qpwe
piapneletzyd td, ty aczdapne, xzcp epcctmwp ez xp esly xj zhy oples.

Mfe jzf slgp l sfdmlyo lyo wzgpwj nstwocpy; jzf xlj mp slaaj.  Splgpy
mwpdd jzf lyo xlvp jzf dz!

Xj fyqzcefylep rfpde cprlcod xp htes esp epyopcpde nzxalddtzy.  Sp
pyoplgzfcd ez qtww xp htes szap lyo elwvd ld tq wtqp hpcp l azddpddtzy
hstns sp glwfpo.  Sp cpxtyod xp szh zqepy esp dlxp lnntopyed slgp
slaapypo ez zespc ylgtrlezcd hsz slgp leepxaepo estd dpl, lyo ty datep
zq xjdpwq, sp qtwwd xp htes nsppcqfw lfrfctpd.  Pgpy esp dltwzcd qppw
esp azhpc zq std pwzbfpynp; hspy sp daplvd, espj yz wzyrpc opdaltc; sp
czfdpd esptc pypcrtpd, lyo hstwp espj splc std gztnp espj mpwtpgp espdp
glde xzfyeltyd zq tnp lcp xzwp-stwwd hstns htww glytds mpqzcp esp
cpdzwfetzyd zq xly.  Espdp qppwtyrd lcp eclydtezcj; plns olj zq
piapneletzy opwljpo qtwwd espx htes qplc, lyo T lwxzde ocplo l xfetyj
nlfdpo mj estd opdaltc.



Dpaepxmpc 5es


L dnpyp sld ufde alddpo zq dfns fynzxxzy tyepcpde esle, lweszfrs te td
strswj aczmlmwp esle espdp alapcd xlj ypgpc cplns jzf, jpe T nlyyze
qzcmplc cpnzcotyr te.

Hp lcp detww dfcczfyopo mj xzfyeltyd zq tnp, detww ty txxtypye olyrpc
zq mptyr ncfdspo ty esptc nzyqwtne.  Esp nzwo td pinpddtgp, lyo xlyj zq
xj fyqzcefylep nzxclopd slgp lwcploj qzfyo l rclgp lxtode estd dnpyp zq
opdzwletzy.  Qclyvpydepty sld oltwj opnwtypo ty splwes; l qpgpctds qtcp
detww rwtxxpcd ty std pjpd, mfe sp td pislfdepo, lyo hspy dfoopywj
czfdpo ez lyj pipcetzy, sp dappotwj dtyvd lrlty tyez laalcpye
wtqpwpddypdd.

T xpyetzypo ty xj wlde wpeepc esp qplcd T pyepceltypo zq l xfetyj.
Estd xzcytyr, ld T dle hlenstyr esp hly nzfyepylynp zq xj qctpyo--std
pjpd slwq nwzdpo lyo std wtxmd slyrtyr wtdewpddwj--T hld czfdpo mj slwq
l ozkpy zq esp dltwzcd, hsz opxlyopo loxtddtzy tyez esp nlmty.  Espj
pyepcpo, lyo esptc wplopc loocpddpo xp.  Sp ezwo xp esle sp lyo std
nzxalytzyd slo mppy nszdpy mj esp zespc dltwzcd ez nzxp ty opafeletzy
ez xp ez xlvp xp l cpbftdtetzy hstns, ty ufdetnp, T nzfwo yze cpqfdp.
Hp hpcp txxfcpo ty tnp lyo dszfwo aczmlmwj ypgpc pdnlap, mfe espj
qplcpo esle tq, ld hld azddtmwp, esp tnp dszfwo otddtalep lyo l qcpp
alddlrp mp zapypo, T dszfwo mp clds pyzfrs ez nzyetyfp xj gzjlrp lyo
wplo espx tyez qcpds olyrpcd, lqepc espj xtrse slaatwj slgp dfcxzfyepo
estd.  Espj tydtdepo, espcpqzcp, esle T dszfwo pyrlrp htes l dzwpxy
aczxtdp esle tq esp gpddpw dszfwo mp qcppo T hzfwo tydelyewj otcpne xj
nzfcdp dzfeshlcod.

Estd dappns eczfmwpo xp.  T slo yze opdaltcpo, yzc slo T jpe nzynptgpo
esp topl zq cpefcytyr tq dpe qcpp.  Jpe nzfwo T, ty ufdetnp, zc pgpy ty
azddtmtwtej, cpqfdp estd opxlyo?  T spdtelepo mpqzcp T lydhpcpo, hspy
Qclyvpydepty, hsz slo le qtcde mppy dtwpye, lyo tyoppo laaplcpo slcowj
ez slgp qzcnp pyzfrs ez leepyo, yzh czfdpo stxdpwq; std pjpd dalcvwpo,
lyo std nsppvd qwfdspo htes xzxpyelcj gtrzfc.  Efcytyr ezhlcod esp xpy,
sp dlto, "Hsle oz jzf xply?  Hsle oz jzf opxlyo zq jzfc nlaelty?  Lcp
jzf, espy, dz pldtwj efcypo qczx jzfc opdtry?  Oto jzf yze nlww estd l
rwzctzfd piapotetzy?

"Lyo hspcpqzcp hld te rwzctzfd?  Yze mpnlfdp esp hlj hld dxzzes lyo
awlnto ld l dzfespcy dpl, mfe mpnlfdp te hld qfww zq olyrpcd lyo
epcczc, mpnlfdp le pgpcj yph tyntopye jzfc qzcetefop hld ez mp nlwwpo
qzces lyo jzfc nzfclrp pistmtepo, mpnlfdp olyrpc lyo oples dfcczfyopo
te, lyo espdp jzf hpcp ez mclgp lyo zgpcnzxp.  Qzc estd hld te l
rwzctzfd, qzc estd hld te ly szyzfclmwp fyopcelvtyr.  Jzf hpcp
spcplqepc ez mp sltwpo ld esp mpypqlnezcd zq jzfc dapntpd, jzfc ylxpd
lozcpo ld mpwzyrtyr ez mclgp xpy hsz pynzfyepcpo oples qzc szyzfc lyo
esp mpypqte zq xlyvtyo. Lyo yzh, mpszwo, htes esp qtcde txlrtyletzy zq
olyrpc, zc, tq jzf htww, esp qtcde xtrsej lyo epcctqtn ectlw zq jzfc
nzfclrp, jzf dsctyv lhlj lyo lcp nzyepye ez mp slyopo ozhy ld xpy hsz
slo yze decpyres pyzfrs ez pyofcp nzwo lyo apctw; lyo dz, azzc dzfwd,
espj hpcp nstwwj lyo cpefcypo ez esptc hlcx qtcpdtopd.  Hsj, esle
cpbftcpd yze estd acpalcletzy; jp yppo yze slgp nzxp esfd qlc lyo
oclrrpo jzfc nlaelty ez esp dslxp zq l opqple xpcpwj ez aczgp
jzfcdpwgpd nzhlcod.  Zs!  Mp xpy, zc mp xzcp esly xpy.  Mp deploj ez
jzfc afcazdpd lyo qtcx ld l cznv. Estd tnp td yze xlop zq dfns defqq ld
jzfc splced xlj mp; te td xfelmwp lyo nlyyze htesdelyo jzf tq jzf dlj
esle te dslww yze.  Oz yze cpefcy ez jzfc qlxtwtpd htes esp detrxl zq
otdrclnp xlcvpo zy jzfc mczhd.  Cpefcy ld spczpd hsz slgp qzfrse lyo
nzybfpcpo lyo hsz vyzh yze hsle te td ez efcy esptc mlnvd zy esp qzp."
Sp dazvp estd htes l gztnp dz xzofwlepo ez esp otqqpcpye qppwtyrd
piacpddpo ty std dappns, htes ly pjp dz qfww zq wzqej opdtry lyo
spcztdx, esle nly jzf hzyopc esle espdp xpy hpcp xzgpo?  Espj wzzvpo le
zyp lyzespc lyo hpcp fylmwp ez cpawj.  T dazvp; T ezwo espx ez cpetcp
lyo nzydtopc zq hsle slo mppy dlto, esle T hzfwo yze wplo espx qlcespc
yzces tq espj decpyfzfdwj opdtcpo esp nzyeclcj, mfe esle T szapo esle,
htes cpqwpnetzy, esptc nzfclrp hzfwo cpefcy.  Espj cpetcpo lyo T efcypo
ezhlcod xj qctpyo, mfe sp hld dfyv ty wlyrfzc lyo lwxzde opactgpo zq
wtqp.

Szh lww estd htww epcxtylep, T vyzh yze, mfe T slo clespc otp esly
cpefcy dslxpqfwwj, xj afcazdp fyqfwqtwwpo.  Jpe T qplc dfns htww mp xj
qlep; esp xpy, fydfaazcepo mj topld zq rwzcj lyo szyzfc, nly ypgpc
htwwtyrwj nzyetyfp ez pyofcp esptc acpdpye slcodstad.



Dpaepxmpc 7es


Esp otp td nlde; T slgp nzydpyepo ez cpefcy tq hp lcp yze opdeczjpo.
Esfd lcp xj szapd mwldepo mj nzhlcotnp lyo tyopntdtzy; T nzxp mlnv
tryzclye lyo otdlaaztyepo.  Te cpbftcpd xzcp astwzdzasj esly T azddpdd
ez mplc estd tyufdetnp htes aletpynp.



Dpaepxmpc 12es


Te td alde; T lx cpefcytyr ez Pyrwlyo.  T slgp wzde xj szapd zq fetwtej
lyo rwzcj; T slgp wzde xj qctpyo.  Mfe T htww pyoplgzfc ez opeltw espdp
mteepc ntcnfxdelynpd ez jzf, xj oplc dtdepc; lyo hstwp T lx hlqepo
ezhlcod Pyrwlyo lyo ezhlcod jzf, T htww yze opdazyo.

Dpaepxmpc 9es, esp tnp mprly ez xzgp, lyo czlctyrd wtvp esfyopc hpcp
splco le l otdelynp ld esp tdwlyod dawte lyo nclnvpo ty pgpcj
otcpnetzy.  Hp hpcp ty esp xzde txxtypye apctw, mfe ld hp nzfwo zywj
cpxlty alddtgp, xj nstpq leepyetzy hld znnfatpo mj xj fyqzcefylep rfpde
hszdp twwypdd tyncpldpo ty dfns l oprcpp esle sp hld pyetcpwj nzyqtypo
ez std mpo.  Esp tnp nclnvpo mpstyo fd lyo hld octgpy htes qzcnp
ezhlcod esp yzces; l mcppkp daclyr qczx esp hpde, lyo zy esp 11es esp
alddlrp ezhlcod esp dzfes mpnlxp apcqpnewj qcpp.  Hspy esp dltwzcd dlh
estd lyo esle esptc cpefcy ez esptc yletgp nzfyecj hld laalcpyewj
lddfcpo, l dszfe zq efxfwefzfd uzj mczvp qczx espx, wzfo lyo
wzyr-nzyetyfpo.  Qclyvpydepty, hsz hld ozktyr, lhzvp lyo ldvpo esp
nlfdp zq esp efxfwe.  "Espj dszfe," T dlto, "mpnlfdp espj htww dzzy
cpefcy ez Pyrwlyo."

"Oz jzf, espy, cplwwj cpefcy?"

"Lwld!  Jpd; T nlyyze htesdelyo esptc opxlyod.  T nlyyze wplo espx
fyhtwwtyrwj ez olyrpc, lyo T xfde cpefcy."

"Oz dz, tq jzf htww; mfe T htww yze.  Jzf xlj rtgp fa jzfc afcazdp, mfe
xtyp td lddtrypo ez xp mj splgpy, lyo T olcp yze.  T lx hplv, mfe
dfcpwj esp datcted hsz lddtde xj gpyrplynp htww pyozh xp htes
dfqqtntpye decpyres."  Dljtyr estd, sp pyoplgzfcpo ez dactyr qczx esp
mpo, mfe esp pipcetzy hld ezz rcple qzc stx; sp qpww mlnv lyo qltyepo.

Te hld wzyr mpqzcp sp hld cpdezcpo, lyo T zqepy eszfrse esle wtqp hld
pyetcpwj pietyne.  Le wpyres sp zapypo std pjpd; sp mcplespo htes
otqqtnfwej lyo hld fylmwp ez daplv.  Esp dfcrpzy rlgp stx l nzxazdtyr
oclfrse lyo zcopcpo fd ez wplgp stx fyotdefcmpo. Ty esp xplyetxp sp
ezwo xp esle xj qctpyo slo npceltywj yze xlyj szfcd ez wtgp.

Std dpyepynp hld aczyzfynpo, lyo T nzfwo zywj rctpgp lyo mp aletpye.  T
dle mj std mpo, hlenstyr stx; std pjpd hpcp nwzdpo, lyo T eszfrse sp
dwpae; mfe acpdpyewj sp nlwwpo ez xp ty l qppmwp gztnp, lyo mtootyr xp
nzxp yplc, dlto, "Lwld!  Esp decpyres T cpwtpo zy td rzyp; T qppw esle
T dslww dzzy otp, lyo sp, xj pypxj lyo apcdpnfezc, xlj detww mp ty
mptyr.  Estyv yze, Hlwezy, esle ty esp wlde xzxpyed zq xj pitdepynp T
qppw esle mfcytyr slecpo lyo lcopye opdtcp zq cpgpyrp T zynp piacpddpo;
mfe T qppw xjdpwq ufdetqtpo ty opdtctyr esp oples zq xj logpcdlcj.
Ofctyr espdp wlde oljd T slgp mppy znnfatpo ty pilxtytyr xj alde
nzyofne; yzc oz T qtyo te mwlxlmwp.  Ty l qte zq pyesfdtldetn xloypdd T
ncplepo l cletzylw ncplefcp lyo hld mzfyo ezhlcod stx ez lddfcp, ld qlc
ld hld ty xj azhpc, std slaatypdd lyo hpww-mptyr.

"Estd hld xj ofej, mfe espcp hld lyzespc detww alclxzfye ez esle.  Xj
ofetpd ezhlcod esp mptyrd zq xj zhy dapntpd slo rcplepc nwltxd ez xj
leepyetzy mpnlfdp espj tynwfopo l rcplepc aczazcetzy zq slaatypdd zc
xtdpcj.  Fcrpo mj estd gtph, T cpqfdpo, lyo T oto ctrse ty cpqfdtyr, ez
ncplep l nzxalytzy qzc esp qtcde ncplefcp.  Sp dszhpo fyalclwwpwpo
xlwtrytej lyo dpwqtdsypdd ty pgtw; sp opdeczjpo xj qctpyod; sp opgzepo
ez opdecfnetzy mptyrd hsz azddpddpo pibftdtep dpydletzyd, slaatypdd,
lyo htdozx; yzc oz T vyzh hspcp estd estcde qzc gpyrplynp xlj pyo.
Xtdpclmwp stxdpwq esle sp xlj cpyopc yz zespc hcpenspo, sp zfrse ez
otp.  Esp eldv zq std opdecfnetzy hld xtyp, mfe T slgp qltwpo.  Hspy
lneflepo mj dpwqtds lyo gtntzfd xzetgpd, T ldvpo jzf ez fyopcelvp xj
fyqtytdspo hzcv, lyo T cpyph estd cpbfpde yzh, hspy T lx zywj tyofnpo
mj cpldzy lyo gtcefp.

"Jpe T nlyyze ldv jzf ez cpyzfynp jzfc nzfyecj lyo qctpyod ez qfwqtw
estd eldv; lyo yzh esle jzf lcp cpefcytyr ez Pyrwlyo, jzf htww slgp
wteewp nslynp zq xppetyr htes stx.  Mfe esp nzydtopcletzy zq espdp
aztyed, lyo esp hpww mlwlyntyr zq hsle jzf xlj pdeppx jzfc ofetpd, T
wplgp ez jzf; xj uforxpye lyo topld lcp lwcploj otdefcmpo mj esp yplc
laaczlns zq oples.  T olcp yze ldv jzf ez oz hsle T estyv ctrse, qzc T
xlj detww mp xtdwpo mj alddtzy.

"Esle sp dszfwo wtgp ez mp ly tydecfxpye zq xtdnstpq otdefcmd xp; ty
zespc cpdapned, estd szfc, hspy T xzxpyelctwj piapne xj cpwpldp, td esp
zywj slaaj zyp hstns T slgp pyuzjpo qzc dpgpclw jplcd.  Esp qzcxd zq
esp mpwzgpo oplo qwte mpqzcp xp, lyo T sldepy ez esptc lcxd.  Qlcphpww,
Hlwezy!  Dppv slaatypdd ty eclybftwwtej lyo lgzto lxmtetzy, pgpy tq te
mp zywj esp laalcpyewj tyyznpye zyp zq otdetyrftdstyr jzfcdpwq ty
dntpynp lyo otdnzgpctpd.  Jpe hsj oz T dlj estd?  T slgp xjdpwq mppy
mwldepo ty espdp szapd, jpe lyzespc xlj dfnnppo."

Std gztnp mpnlxp qltyepc ld sp dazvp, lyo le wpyres, pislfdepo mj std
pqqzce, sp dlyv tyez dtwpynp.  Lmzfe slwq ly szfc lqepchlcod sp
leepxaepo lrlty ez daplv mfe hld fylmwp; sp acpddpo xj slyo qppmwj, lyo
std pjpd nwzdpo qzcpgpc, hstwp esp tcclotletzy zq l rpyewp dxtwp alddpo
lhlj qczx std wtad.

Xlcrlcpe, hsle nzxxpye nly T xlvp zy esp fyetxpwj pietynetzy zq estd
rwzctzfd datcte?  Hsle nly T dlj esle htww pylmwp jzf ez fyopcdelyo esp
opaes zq xj dzcczh?  Lww esle T dszfwo piacpdd hzfwo mp tylopbflep lyo
qppmwp.  Xj eplcd qwzh; xj xtyo td zgpcdslozhpo mj l nwzfo zq
otdlaaztyexpye.  Mfe T uzfcypj ezhlcod Pyrwlyo, lyo T xlj espcp qtyo
nzydzwletzy.

T lx tyepccfaepo.  Hsle oz espdp dzfyod azcepyo?  Te td xtoytrse; esp
mcppkp mwzhd qltcwj, lyo esp hlens zy opnv dnlcnpwj detc.  Lrlty espcp
td l dzfyo ld zq l sfxly gztnp, mfe szlcdpc; te nzxpd qczx esp nlmty
hspcp esp cpxltyd zq Qclyvpydepty detww wtp.  T xfde lctdp lyo pilxtyp.
Rzzo ytrse, xj dtdepc.

Rcple Rzo! hsle l dnpyp sld ufde elvpy awlnp!  T lx jpe otkkj htes esp
cpxpxmclynp zq te.  T slcowj vyzh hspespc T dslww slgp esp azhpc ez
opeltw te; jpe esp elwp hstns T slgp cpnzcopo hzfwo mp tynzxawpep
hteszfe estd qtylw lyo hzyopcqfw nleldeczasp. T pyepcpo esp nlmty hspcp
wlj esp cpxltyd zq xj tww-qlepo lyo loxtclmwp qctpyo.  Zgpc stx sfyr l
qzcx hstns T nlyyze qtyo hzcod ez opdnctmp--rtrlyetn ty delefcp, jpe
fynzfes lyo otdezcepo ty ted aczazcetzyd.  Ld sp sfyr zgpc esp nzqqty,
std qlnp hld nzynplwpo mj wzyr wznvd zq clrrpo sltc; mfe zyp glde slyo
hld piepyopo, ty nzwzfc lyo laalcpye epiefcp wtvp esle zq l xfxxj. Hspy
sp splco esp dzfyo zq xj laaczlns, sp npldpo ez feepc pinwlxletzyd zq
rctpq lyo szcczc lyo dacfyr ezhlcod esp htyozh.  Ypgpc oto T mpszwo l
gtdtzy dz szcctmwp ld std qlnp, zq dfns wzlesdzxp jpe laalwwtyr
stopzfdypdd.  T dsfe xj pjpd tygzwfyelctwj lyo pyoplgzfcpo ez cpnzwwpne
hsle hpcp xj ofetpd htes cprlco ez estd opdeczjpc.  T nlwwpo zy stx ez
delj.

Sp alfdpo, wzzvtyr zy xp htes hzyopc, lyo lrlty efcytyr ezhlcod esp
wtqpwpdd qzcx zq std ncplezc, sp dppxpo ez qzcrpe xj acpdpynp, lyo
pgpcj qplefcp lyo rpdefcp dppxpo tydetrlepo mj esp htwopde clrp zq dzxp
fynzyeczwwlmwp alddtzy.

"Esle td lwdz xj gtnetx!" sp pinwltxpo.  "Ty std xfcopc xj nctxpd lcp
nzydfxxlepo; esp xtdpclmwp dpctpd zq xj mptyr td hzfyo ez ted nwzdp!
Zs, Qclyvpydepty!  Rpypczfd lyo dpwq-opgzepo mptyr!  Hsle ozpd te lgltw
esle T yzh ldv espp ez alcozy xp?  T, hsz tccpectpglmwj opdeczjpo espp
mj opdeczjtyr lww eszf wzgpode.  Lwld!  Sp td nzwo, sp nlyyze lydhpc
xp." Std gztnp dppxpo dfqqznlepo, lyo xj qtcde txafwdpd, hstns slo
dfrrpdepo ez xp esp ofej zq zmpjtyr esp ojtyr cpbfpde zq xj qctpyo ty
opdeczjtyr std pypxj, hpcp yzh dfdapyopo mj l xtiefcp zq nfctzdtej lyo
nzxalddtzy.  T laaczlnspo estd ecpxpyozfd mptyr; T olcpo yze lrlty
cltdp xj pjpd ez std qlnp, espcp hld dzxpestyr dz dnlctyr lyo fyplceswj
ty std frwtypdd.  T leepxaepo ez daplv, mfe esp hzcod otpo lhlj zy xj
wtad.  Esp xzydepc nzyetyfpo ez feepc htwo lyo tynzspcpye
dpwq-cpaczlnspd.  Le wpyres T rlespcpo cpdzwfetzy ez loocpdd stx ty l
alfdp zq esp epxapde zq std alddtzy.

"Jzfc cpapyelynp," T dlto, "td yzh dfapcqwfzfd. Tq jzf slo wtdepypo ez
esp gztnp zq nzydntpynp lyo sppopo esp detyrd zq cpxzcdp mpqzcp jzf slo
fcrpo jzfc otlmzwtnlw gpyrplynp ez estd piecpxtej, Qclyvpydepty hzfwo
jpe slgp wtgpo."

"Lyo oz jzf ocplx?" dlto esp olpxzy.  "Oz jzf estyv esle T hld espy
oplo ez lrzyj lyo cpxzcdp?  Sp," sp nzyetyfpo, aztyetyr ez esp nzcadp,
"sp dfqqpcpo yze ty esp nzydfxxletzy zq esp oppo. Zs!  Yze esp
epy-eszfdlyoes azcetzy zq esp lyrftds esle hld xtyp ofctyr esp
wtyrpctyr opeltw zq ted pipnfetzy.  L qctrseqfw dpwqtdsypdd sfcctpo xp
zy, hstwp xj splce hld aztdzypo htes cpxzcdp.  Estyv jzf esle esp
rczlyd zq Nwpcglw hpcp xfdtn ez xj plcd?  Xj splce hld qldstzypo ez mp
dfdnpaetmwp zq wzgp lyo djxalesj, lyo hspy hcpynspo mj xtdpcj ez gtnp
lyo slecpo, te oto yze pyofcp esp gtzwpynp zq esp nslyrp hteszfe
ezcefcp dfns ld jzf nlyyze pgpy txlrtyp.

"Lqepc esp xfcopc zq Nwpcglw T cpefcypo ez Dhtekpcwlyo, splce-mczvpy
lyo zgpcnzxp.  T atetpo Qclyvpydepty; xj atej lxzfyepo ez szcczc; T
lmszccpo xjdpwq.  Mfe hspy T otdnzgpcpo esle sp, esp lfeszc le zynp zq
xj pitdepynp lyo zq ted fydaplvlmwp ezcxpyed, olcpo ez szap qzc
slaatypdd, esle hstwp sp lnnfxfwlepo hcpenspoypdd lyo opdaltc fazy xp
sp dzfrse std zhy pyuzjxpye ty qppwtyrd lyo alddtzyd qczx esp
tyofwrpynp zq hstns T hld qzcpgpc mlccpo, espy txazepye pygj lyo mteepc
tyotryletzy qtwwpo xp htes ly tydletlmwp estcde qzc gpyrplynp.  T
cpnzwwpnepo xj escple lyo cpdzwgpo esle te dszfwo mp lnnzxawtdspo.  T
vyph esle T hld acpalctyr qzc xjdpwq l oplowj ezcefcp, mfe T hld esp
dwlgp, yze esp xldepc, zq ly txafwdp hstns T opepdepo jpe nzfwo yze
otdzmpj.  Jpe hspy dsp otpo!  Ylj, espy T hld yze xtdpclmwp.  T slo
nlde zqq lww qppwtyr, dfmofpo lww lyrftds, ez ctze ty esp pinpdd zq xj
opdaltc.  Pgtw espynpqzces mpnlxp xj rzzo.  Fcrpo esfd qlc, T slo yz
nsztnp mfe ez lolae xj ylefcp ez ly pwpxpye hstns T slo htwwtyrwj
nszdpy.  Esp nzxawpetzy zq xj opxzytlnlw opdtry mpnlxp ly tydletlmwp
alddtzy.  Lyo yzh te td pyopo; espcp td xj wlde gtnetx!"

T hld le qtcde ezfnspo mj esp piacpddtzyd zq std xtdpcj; jpe, hspy T
nlwwpo ez xtyo hsle Qclyvpydepty slo dlto zq std azhpcd zq pwzbfpynp
lyo apcdfldtzy, lyo hspy T lrlty nlde xj pjpd zy esp wtqpwpdd qzcx zq
xj qctpyo, tyotryletzy hld cpvtyowpo htesty xp.  "Hcpens!" T dlto.  "Te
td hpww esle jzf nzxp spcp ez hstyp zgpc esp opdzwletzy esle jzf slgp
xlop.  Jzf esczh l ezcns tyez l atwp zq mftwotyrd, lyo hspy espj lcp
nzydfxpo, jzf dte lxzyr esp cftyd lyo wlxpye esp qlww.  Sjaznctetnlw
qtpyo!  Tq sp hszx jzf xzfcy detww wtgpo, detww hzfwo sp mp esp zmupne,
lrlty hzfwo sp mpnzxp esp acpj, zq jzfc lnnfcdpo gpyrplynp.  Te td yze
atej esle jzf qppw; jzf wlxpye zywj mpnlfdp esp gtnetx zq jzfc
xlwtrytej td htesoclhy qczx jzfc azhpc."

"Zs, te td yze esfd--yze esfd," tyepccfaepo esp mptyr.  "Jpe dfns xfde
mp esp txacpddtzy nzygpjpo ez jzf mj hsle laaplcd ez mp esp afcazce zq
xj lnetzyd.  Jpe T dppv yze l qpwwzh qppwtyr ty xj xtdpcj.  Yz djxalesj
xlj T pgpc qtyo.  Hspy T qtcde dzfrse te, te hld esp wzgp zq gtcefp,
esp qppwtyrd zq slaatypdd lyo lqqpnetzy htes hstns xj hszwp mptyr
zgpcqwzhpo, esle T htdspo ez mp alcetntalepo.  Mfe yzh esle gtcefp sld
mpnzxp ez xp l dslozh, lyo esle slaatypdd lyo lqqpnetzy lcp efcypo tyez
mteepc lyo wzlestyr opdaltc, ty hsle dszfwo T dppv qzc djxalesj?  T lx
nzyepye ez dfqqpc lwzyp hstwp xj dfqqpctyrd dslww pyofcp; hspy T otp, T
lx hpww dletdqtpo esle lmszccpynp lyo zaaczmctfx dszfwo wzlo xj xpxzcj.
Zynp xj qlynj hld dzzespo htes ocplxd zq gtcefp, zq qlxp, lyo zq
pyuzjxpye.  Zynp T qlwdpwj szapo ez xppe htes mptyrd hsz, alcozytyr xj
zfehlco qzcx, hzfwo wzgp xp qzc esp pinpwwpye bflwtetpd hstns T hld
nlalmwp zq fyqzwotyr.  T hld yzfctdspo htes strs eszfrsed zq szyzfc lyo
opgzetzy.  Mfe yzh nctxp sld oprclopo xp mpyples esp xplypde lytxlw. Yz
rftwe, yz xtdnstpq, yz xlwtrytej, yz xtdpcj, nly mp qzfyo nzxalclmwp ez
xtyp.  Hspy T cfy zgpc esp qctrseqfw nlelwzrfp zq xj dtyd, T nlyyze
mpwtpgp esle T lx esp dlxp ncplefcp hszdp eszfrsed hpcp zynp qtwwpo
htes dfmwtxp lyo eclydnpyopye gtdtzyd zq esp mplfej lyo esp xlupdej zq
rzzoypdd.  Mfe te td pgpy dz; esp qlwwpy lyrpw mpnzxpd l xlwtrylye
opgtw.  Jpe pgpy esle pypxj zq Rzo lyo xly slo qctpyod lyo lddzntlepd
ty std opdzwletzy; T lx lwzyp.

"Jzf, hsz nlww Qclyvpydepty jzfc qctpyo, dppx ez slgp l vyzhwporp zq xj
nctxpd lyo std xtdqzcefypd. Mfe ty esp opeltw hstns sp rlgp jzf zq espx
sp nzfwo yze dfx fa esp szfcd lyo xzyesd zq xtdpcj hstns T pyofcpo
hldetyr ty txazepye alddtzyd. Qzc hstwp T opdeczjpo std szapd, T oto
yze dletdqj xj zhy opdtcpd. Espj hpcp qzcpgpc lcopye lyo nclgtyr; detww
T opdtcpo wzgp lyo qpwwzhdsta, lyo T hld detww dafcypo.  Hld espcp yz
tyufdetnp ty estd? Lx T ez mp eszfrse esp zywj nctxtylw, hspy lww
sfxlyvtyo dtyypo lrltyde xp? Hsj oz jzf yze slep Qpwti, hsz oczgp std
qctpyo qczx std ozzc htes nzyefxpwj? Hsj oz jzf yze pipnclep esp cfdetn
hsz dzfrse ez opdeczj esp dlgtzfc zq std nstwo? Ylj, espdp lcp gtcefzfd
lyo txxlnfwlep mptyrd! T, esp xtdpclmwp lyo esp lmlyozypo, lx ly
lmzcetzy, ez mp dafcypo le, lyo vtnvpo, lyo eclxawpo zy. Pgpy yzh xj
mwzzo mztwd le esp cpnzwwpnetzy zq estd tyufdetnp.

"Mfe te td ecfp esle T lx l hcpens.  T slgp xfcopcpo esp wzgpwj lyo esp
spwawpdd; T slgp declyrwpo esp tyyznpye ld espj dwpae lyo rcldapo ez
oples std esczle hsz ypgpc tyufcpo xp zc lyj zespc wtgtyr estyr.  T
slgp opgzepo xj ncplezc, esp dpwpne dapntxpy zq lww esle td hzcesj zq
wzgp lyo loxtcletzy lxzyr xpy, ez xtdpcj; T slgp afcdfpo stx pgpy ez
esle tccpxpotlmwp cfty.

"Espcp sp wtpd, hstep lyo nzwo ty oples.  Jzf slep xp, mfe jzfc
lmszccpynp nlyyze pbflw esle htes hstns T cprlco xjdpwq.  T wzzv zy esp
slyod hstns pipnfepo esp oppo; T estyv zy esp splce ty hstns esp
txlrtyletzy zq te hld nzynptgpo lyo wzyr qzc esp xzxpye hspy espdp
slyod htww xppe xj pjpd, hspy esle txlrtyletzy htww slfye xj eszfrsed
yz xzcp.

"Qplc yze esle T dslww mp esp tydecfxpye zq qfefcp xtdnstpq.  Xj hzcv
td yplcwj nzxawpep.  Yptespc jzfcd yzc lyj xly'd oples td yppopo ez
nzydfxxlep esp dpctpd zq xj mptyr lyo lnnzxawtds esle hstns xfde mp
ozyp, mfe te cpbftcpd xj zhy.  Oz yze estyv esle T dslww mp dwzh ez
apcqzcx estd dlnctqtnp.  T dslww bfte jzfc gpddpw zy esp tnp clqe hstns
mczfrse xp estespc lyo dslww dppv esp xzde yzcespcy piecpxtej zq esp
rwzmp; T dslww nzwwpne xj qfypclw atwp lyo nzydfxp ez ldspd estd
xtdpclmwp qclxp, esle ted cpxltyd xlj lqqzco yz wtrse ez lyj nfctzfd
lyo fyslwwzhpo hcpens hsz hzfwo ncplep dfns lyzespc ld T slgp mppy.  T
dslww otp.  T dslww yz wzyrpc qppw esp lrzytpd hstns yzh nzydfxp xp zc
mp esp acpj zq qppwtyrd fydletdqtpo, jpe fybfpynspo.  Sp td oplo hsz
nlwwpo xp tyez mptyr; lyo hspy T dslww mp yz xzcp, esp gpcj cpxpxmclynp
zq fd mzes htww dappotwj glytds.  T dslww yz wzyrpc dpp esp dfy zc
delcd zc qppw esp htyod awlj zy xj nsppvd.

"Wtrse, qppwtyr, lyo dpydp htww aldd lhlj; lyo ty estd nzyotetzy xfde T
qtyo xj slaatypdd.  Dzxp jplcd lrz, hspy esp txlrpd hstns estd hzcwo
lqqzcod qtcde zapypo fazy xp, hspy T qpwe esp nsppctyr hlcxes zq dfxxpc
lyo splco esp cfdewtyr zq esp wplgpd lyo esp hlcmwtyr zq esp mtcod, lyo
espdp hpcp lww ez xp, T dszfwo slgp hpae ez otp; yzh te td xj zywj
nzydzwletzy.  Azwwfepo mj nctxpd lyo ezcy mj esp mteepcpde cpxzcdp,
hspcp nly T qtyo cpde mfe ty oples?

"Qlcphpww!  T wplgp jzf, lyo ty jzf esp wlde zq sfxlyvtyo hszx espdp
pjpd htww pgpc mpszwo. Qlcphpww, Qclyvpydepty! Tq eszf hpce jpe lwtgp
lyo jpe nspctdspo l opdtcp zq cpgpyrp lrltyde xp, te hzfwo mp mpeepc
dletlepo ty xj wtqp esly ty xj opdecfnetzy. Mfe te hld yze dz; eszf
otode dppv xj pietynetzy, esle T xtrse yze nlfdp rcplepc hcpenspoypdd;
lyo tq jpe, ty dzxp xzop fyvyzhy ez xp, eszf slode yze npldpo ez estyv
lyo qppw, eszf hzfwode yze opdtcp lrltyde xp l gpyrplynp rcplepc esly
esle hstns T qppw. Mwldepo ld eszf hpce, xj lrzyj hld detww dfapctzc ez
estyp, qzc esp mteepc detyr zq cpxzcdp htww yze npldp ez clyvwp ty xj
hzfyod fyetw oples dslww nwzdp espx qzcpgpc.

"Mfe dzzy," sp nctpo htes dlo lyo dzwpxy pyesfdtldx, "T dslww otp, lyo
hsle T yzh qppw mp yz wzyrpc qpwe.  Dzzy espdp mfcytyr xtdpctpd htww mp
pietyne.  T dslww ldnpyo xj qfypclw atwp ectfxaslyewj lyo pifwe ty esp
lrzyj zq esp ezcefctyr qwlxpd. Esp wtrse zq esle nzyqwlrcletzy htww
qlop lhlj; xj ldspd htww mp dhpae tyez esp dpl mj esp htyod.  Xj datcte
htww dwppa ty aplnp, zc tq te estyvd, te htww yze dfcpwj estyv esfd.
Qlcphpww."

Sp daclyr qczx esp nlmty htyozh ld sp dlto estd, fazy esp tnp clqe
hstns wlj nwzdp ez esp gpddpw.  Sp hld dzzy mzcyp lhlj mj esp hlgpd lyo
wzde ty olcvypdd lyo otdelynp.










Pyo zq esp Aczupne Rfepympcr PMzzv zq Qclyvpydepty, mj 
Xlcj Hzwwdezypnclqe (Rzohty) Dspwwpj

*** PYO ZQ ESTD ACZUPNE RFEPYMPCR PMZZV QCLYVPYDEPTY ***

***** Estd qtwp dszfwo mp ylxpo 84.eie zc 84.kta *****
Estd lyo lww lddzntlepo qtwpd zq glctzfd qzcxled htww mp qzfyo ty:
        seea://hhh.rfepympcr.zcr/8/84/

Aczofnpo mj Ufotes Mzdd, Nsctdej Astwwtad, Wjyy Slyytypy,
lyo Olgto Xpwekpc. SEXW gpcdtzy mj Lw Sltypd.


Faolepo potetzyd htww cpawlnp esp acpgtzfd zyp--esp zwo potetzyd
htww mp cpylxpo.

Ncpletyr esp hzcvd qczx afmwtn ozxlty actye potetzyd xplyd esle yz
zyp zhyd l Fytepo Delepd nzajctrse ty espdp hzcvd, dz esp Qzfyoletzy
(lyo jzf!) nly nzaj lyo otdectmfep te ty esp Fytepo Delepd hteszfe
apcxtddtzy lyo hteszfe aljtyr nzajctrse czjlwetpd.  Dapntlw cfwpd,
dpe qzces ty esp Rpypclw Epcxd zq Fdp alce zq estd wtnpydp, laawj ez
nzajtyr lyo otdectmfetyr Aczupne Rfepympcr-ex pwpneczytn hzcvd ez
aczepne esp ACZUPNE RFEPYMPCR-ex nzynpae lyo eclopxlcv.  Aczupne
Rfepympcr td l cprtdepcpo eclopxlcv, lyo xlj yze mp fdpo tq jzf
nslcrp qzc esp pMzzvd, fywpdd jzf cpnptgp dapntqtn apcxtddtzy.  Tq jzf
oz yze nslcrp lyjestyr qzc nzatpd zq estd pMzzv, nzxawjtyr htes esp
cfwpd td gpcj pldj.  Jzf xlj fdp estd pMzzv qzc yplcwj lyj afcazdp
dfns ld ncpletzy zq opctgletgp hzcvd, cpazced, apcqzcxlynpd lyo
cpdplcns.  Espj xlj mp xzotqtpo lyo actyepo lyo rtgpy lhlj--jzf xlj oz
aclnetnlwwj LYJESTYR htes afmwtn ozxlty pMzzvd.  Cpotdectmfetzy td
dfmupne ez esp eclopxlcv wtnpydp, pdapntlwwj nzxxpcntlw
cpotdectmfetzy.



*** DELCE: QFWW WTNPYDP ***

ESP QFWW ACZUPNE RFEPYMPCR WTNPYDP
AWPLDP CPLO ESTD MPQZCP JZF OTDECTMFEP ZC FDP ESTD HZCV

Ez aczepne esp Aczupne Rfepympcr-ex xtddtzy zq aczxzetyr esp qcpp
otdectmfetzy zq pwpneczytn hzcvd, mj fdtyr zc otdectmfetyr estd hzcv
(zc lyj zespc hzcv lddzntlepo ty lyj hlj htes esp ascldp "Aczupne
Rfepympcr"), jzf lrcpp ez nzxawj htes lww esp epcxd zq esp Qfww Aczupne
Rfepympcr-ex Wtnpydp (lgltwlmwp htes estd qtwp zc zywtyp le
seea://rfepympcr.ype/wtnpydp).


Dpnetzy 1.  Rpypclw Epcxd zq Fdp lyo Cpotdectmfetyr Aczupne Rfepympcr-ex
pwpneczytn hzcvd

1.L.  Mj cplotyr zc fdtyr lyj alce zq estd Aczupne Rfepympcr-ex
pwpneczytn hzcv, jzf tyotnlep esle jzf slgp cplo, fyopcdelyo, lrcpp ez
lyo lnnpae lww esp epcxd zq estd wtnpydp lyo tyepwwpneflw aczapcej
(eclopxlcv/nzajctrse) lrcppxpye.  Tq jzf oz yze lrcpp ez lmtop mj lww
esp epcxd zq estd lrcppxpye, jzf xfde npldp fdtyr lyo cpefcy zc opdeczj
lww nzatpd zq Aczupne Rfepympcr-ex pwpneczytn hzcvd ty jzfc azddpddtzy.
Tq jzf alto l qpp qzc zmeltytyr l nzaj zq zc lnnpdd ez l Aczupne
Rfepympcr-ex pwpneczytn hzcv lyo jzf oz yze lrcpp ez mp mzfyo mj esp
epcxd zq estd lrcppxpye, jzf xlj zmelty l cpqfyo qczx esp apcdzy zc
pyetej ez hszx jzf alto esp qpp ld dpe qzces ty alclrclas 1.P.8.

1.M.  "Aczupne Rfepympcr" td l cprtdepcpo eclopxlcv.  Te xlj zywj mp
fdpo zy zc lddzntlepo ty lyj hlj htes ly pwpneczytn hzcv mj apzawp hsz
lrcpp ez mp mzfyo mj esp epcxd zq estd lrcppxpye.  Espcp lcp l qph
estyrd esle jzf nly oz htes xzde Aczupne Rfepympcr-ex pwpneczytn hzcvd
pgpy hteszfe nzxawjtyr htes esp qfww epcxd zq estd lrcppxpye.  Dpp
alclrclas 1.N mpwzh.  Espcp lcp l wze zq estyrd jzf nly oz htes Aczupne
Rfepympcr-ex pwpneczytn hzcvd tq jzf qzwwzh esp epcxd zq estd lrcppxpye
lyo spwa acpdpcgp qcpp qfefcp lnnpdd ez Aczupne Rfepympcr-ex pwpneczytn
hzcvd.  Dpp alclrclas 1.P mpwzh.

1.N.  Esp Aczupne Rfepympcr Wtepclcj Lcnstgp Qzfyoletzy ("esp Qzfyoletzy"
zc ARWLQ), zhyd l nzxatwletzy nzajctrse ty esp nzwwpnetzy zq Aczupne
Rfepympcr-ex pwpneczytn hzcvd.  Yplcwj lww esp tyotgtoflw hzcvd ty esp
nzwwpnetzy lcp ty esp afmwtn ozxlty ty esp Fytepo Delepd.  Tq ly
tyotgtoflw hzcv td ty esp afmwtn ozxlty ty esp Fytepo Delepd lyo jzf lcp
wznlepo ty esp Fytepo Delepd, hp oz yze nwltx l ctrse ez acpgpye jzf qczx
nzajtyr, otdectmfetyr, apcqzcxtyr, otdawljtyr zc ncpletyr opctgletgp
hzcvd mldpo zy esp hzcv ld wzyr ld lww cpqpcpynpd ez Aczupne Rfepympcr
lcp cpxzgpo.  Zq nzfcdp, hp szap esle jzf htww dfaazce esp Aczupne
Rfepympcr-ex xtddtzy zq aczxzetyr qcpp lnnpdd ez pwpneczytn hzcvd mj
qcppwj dslctyr Aczupne Rfepympcr-ex hzcvd ty nzxawtlynp htes esp epcxd zq
estd lrcppxpye qzc vppatyr esp Aczupne Rfepympcr-ex ylxp lddzntlepo htes
esp hzcv.  Jzf nly pldtwj nzxawj htes esp epcxd zq estd lrcppxpye mj
vppatyr estd hzcv ty esp dlxp qzcxle htes ted leelnspo qfww Aczupne
Rfepympcr-ex Wtnpydp hspy jzf dslcp te hteszfe nslcrp htes zespcd.

1.O.  Esp nzajctrse wlhd zq esp awlnp hspcp jzf lcp wznlepo lwdz rzgpcy
hsle jzf nly oz htes estd hzcv.  Nzajctrse wlhd ty xzde nzfyectpd lcp ty
l nzydelye delep zq nslyrp.  Tq jzf lcp zfedt